okay my check just checking to see if
everything is okay or not mmm
just give me a sec okay folks are I
think we're life just checking if
everything is all right my check and
basic stuff yeah things seem to be
working good
yeah just finally milk checks so we are
just a minute away from 10:00 a.m. let's
wait for a couple of minutes as other
people are joining in and then we'll get
started
I'm just reading through the chat
session here that we have just confirm
that I'm audible and clearly visible can
you just confirm that on the chat Hey
good morning folks
just wanted to make sure there is no
glitches okay
you said voices echoing let me just
change my microphone a little is that so
hmm let me just adjust it and see okay
everything seems okay hey good morning
folks thank you for joining us this
early okay I think again it's 10:00 a.m.
sharp right off let's wait for a couple
of minutes we'll start sharp at 10:00
2:00 a.m. just a couple of minutes for
people to join in I think that's a
courtesy wait time that that we can give
everyone so as many of you know the the
topic of discussion today the topic of
discussion today is how to code
effectively and also how to build a
simple web scraper again if you are a
very strong programmer this session
might bore you I'm just warning you up
front if you're a good programmer who
has been programming for a few years and
you are very comfortable with
programming some of what I will discuss
today could bore you but if you are
somebody who is who is a young computer
science student or who is who thinks
they're not very strong at programming
or in other words somebody who's from a
non computer science background who is
moving into machine learning and data
science some of what we discussed could
certainly help you and the reason we
started we picked up this topic is we
have seen a few students struggle
through the assignments that we have
primarily because they either come from
a non computer science background and
hence the program
many years ago or that they they have
not programmed effectively for many
years right or they're not programmed
extensively for a few years so we
thought by doing a session on this again
this is going to be a very very basic
session remember what we're doing is
we're alternating between an advanced
session and a basic session the last
week we did how to build a chatbot right
we went through various design choices
that we have when we have to build a
chatbot and things like that this week
so that was most targeted towards people
who are in the later stages of the
course this week
it's done Python probably right of
course some knowledge some working
knowledge of Python is certainly
necessary to understand pre-decision and
I'm hoping most students who are
attending it or the most course
participants who are attending it have
either done the Python course or the
Python chapters in the course or they're
comfortable with Python programming in
general right so anyway so it's already
10 - so let's get started
so somebody was asking about what
happened to the live session have that
app is still there just to be clear here
but we thought a general-purpose session
like this which is open to everyone not
just our registered students is a good
idea because this is a very general
topic which could benefit everyone who
is who is getting into programming or
who is transitioning from a non computer
science or a non programming role to a
programming role that's why we thought
it's best to do it on YouTube so that
everybody benefits basically it's not a
very specific topic that we picked up of
course once in a while we will do these
general-purpose sessions on YouTube but
in general we will be doing most of our
live sessions through the desktop app
that we have for all of the registered
students so with that let's get started
I just as usual change to that just give
me a sec ok I'll simply change to the
screen sharing mode take my face away so
that we can focus more on the content
okay I hope everything is good let me
just check this once and then get going
just give me a sec mmm ok I think I
think things are good
ok sounds good okay so this is the
agenda for today let me okay so let's
just okay so this is the agenda that we
have for today on 23rd 529 teen the two
topics that we'll cover we'll try and
spend about one are on each of these
topics the first topic is how to code
effectively the second topic is how to
build a simple web scraper again please
note that we are not building a
state-of-the-art web scraper because
that that's that's a non-trivial task
we'll introduce you to how to build us
Apple web scraper using some simple code
and some blogs okay so before we get
started a couple of any well keep
checking on YouTube also to see if there
are any issues or hiccups okay okay so
okay I'll also take a couple of breaks
in between so that I can go through the
comment section and try and answer some
of the questions okay so a few
announcements before we get started is
primarily targeted towards the
registered students so the first one is
last week if you recall we have done
this live session on how to build a chat
bot so I'm extremely happy to see many
of our students build chat BOTS using
Raza dialogue flow and
some simple chat BOTS that they've built
using dialogue flow some of them have
built it using Raza some of them even
attempted the end to end conversation
engines and this is very encouraging
this is like feedback for us that the
session we did is certainly very useful
right so thank you all thank you thanks
to all the students who have taken up
time we've catered time to do this and
we strongly encourage our students to
take the lessons that you learn from
these live sessions and work on top of
them so that it gives us constructive
feedback on how we could constantly
improve the course number one number two
it also keeps us motivated and
encouraged when we see great results
like this
the second is sorry today he's a
Saturday event we typically do Sunday
mornings 10:00 to 12:00 this week this
week I'm traveling tomorrow
and I wanted to do this session without
canceling it this week hence I thought
we'll do it on a Saturday we'll do it on
a Saturday I understand that some people
because they're either college going
students or working professionals have
to go to work on Saturday they might
miss this apologies for that but this
whole session would be available on
YouTube so that you can just watch it
after your college or after your after
your working hours at office okay sorry
for a Saturday even will try and
consistently do most of the sessions on
Sundays unless there is a there are
other constraints like I got to travel
tomorrow okay so the third thing is
we'll be having a new website in the
next week or so
we have built most of the key components
of the website we have also tested it
fairly decently and we will have some
down time mostly night ours is T we'll
announce it up front so if if you have
any down time maybe one night or two
nights this week apologies for that but
will inform you well in advance this is
to transition everything from the old
website of course a lot of our students
have given us feedback on how to improve
the website some of this feedback has
already been incorporated into the new
website right and the new website is
certainly very faster than the old
website so we react addicted the whole
system wrote every line of code from
crach just to ensure that it will be
faster it will be seamless and things
like that but we will need some
transition time to pull out all the data
from the old website move it to the new
website etc but we'll make we'll make
announcements we'll make an announcement
of of downtime during night hours ist
sorry to the folks who are in or in day
time who are in US and other time zones
who may observe this downtime during day
hours for you
apologies for that but we had to pick
one set of users over other
unfortunately and since many users are
from India we thought let's do it during
night hours India time right so
apologies and please cooperate on this
front once the website is up we will
start a new slack channel to report any
bugs and improvements to the website so
that our tech team can fix them one by
one of course it will take some time to
fix all of them but slowly and steadily
we'll start this new slack channel of
course all of our registered students
would be would be able to access the
slack channel and give us constructive
feedback and report bugs and things like
that so that we can so that we can fix
them and iterate and get to a better
website as fast as possible okay so the
other major announcement is that we will
be putting out this is again for
registered students because some
registered students have asked us that
because of some work constraints or
other constraints if that they're not
able to attend a live session while it's
happening via the desktop app could they
get access to those videos so we will be
putting out putting the putting out the
live sessions in the desktop app only
for registered students 24 hours after
the completion of the live session right
so we'll have a 24 hour buffer period so
that people who could not attend these
live sessions in person could certainly
watch them 24 hours later via the
desktop app okay
so we got a lot of feedback on this
front and we thought this is certainly a
logical request of course but we
certainly encourage all of our students
to join us during the live session
because it gives us a nice framework to
interact all right it gives us a very
nice framework
to interact and to get your feedback and
to answer some of your questions and
things like that okay
after those announcements let's go into
how to code effectively right this this
is the key topic of course there are a
couple of subsections here so I'm
assuming here the big assumption that I
have is that you already have decent
knowledge of Python all the course
participants I'm assuming that you have
gone through all the chapters of Python
so you understand what is a variable you
understand it fills conditions you you
understand for loop you understand
functions okay
I'm not expecting you to be
you know the basic construct right you
know the basic things about variables
I'm assuming that you know basically
fills conditions basic for loop while
loop right also some basic things about
functions in Python
similarly concepts like recursion right
concepts like modules etc right I'm
assuming you've gone through some of
these pythons are present you have this
foundational knowledge I'm not expecting
you to be an expert in any way okay so
the first question so before we go into
it what is the objective of this session
on how to code effectively right so I
think after talking to a lot of students
also review many assignments these are
the problems that we faced and we want
to help you fix them first thing is
given a problem given any problem given
any programming problem the first task
is to break down the problem into
smaller pieces break down the problem
into smaller manageable pieces right
that that's something that many people
are not able to do of course I'm not
expecting that everybody would be able
to do it on day zero itself but I want
to I want to guide you in the right
direction on how to break down a problem
also give you a lot of practice problems
so that so that you can build on top of
it the second thing is the core concept
behind your idea course itself which is
to learn to learn right
no course on earth can cover everything
and and all the things obviously it's
impossible so what we would cover in a
Pyrrhic even Python content right in a
playah course what we have done is we
have limited ourselves to the very
basics and techniques that you need for
data science and machine learning
specifically we have there lots of parts
of Python that we did not cover
intentionally because this is not a
Python code so and there are some
concepts in Python and some libraries in
Python that we have introduced as in
when we need them right so we want to
encourage your students to learn to
learn using Google using function
references and things like that and
there's a third thing that we observe a
lot amongst our students which is many
students have fear of using new
libraries okay if you see a new library
let's say right people say ok I don't
know what this library does I'm not sure
what it does and in the start
and start getting frightened about it
and they don't even use it so I want to
demystify some of these things that new
libraries what is the life what is a new
library or a new module if you think
about it it's basically a bunch of
classes and a bunch of functions that
you care about that's all there is right
in a nutshell this is what this is what
a new library is all about if you know
basics of classes and functions in
Python learning a new library is just
about google searching for a bunch of
classes that are useful for you so I see
lot of fear among students especially
the non computer science to rin-chan non
experienced programmers to use new new
libraries so what we will do here is we
will focus on all these three things of
course there is obviously a lot of
experimentation that you have to do
there is search and you have to learn
and you'll fail trust me I started
programming I think when I'm in 11th
class because I was studying in CBS see
syllabus when we had programming I still
remember the very first few programs
that I struggled through them right it
is only after after after awhile that I
actually got comfortable with
programming right I think I started in
Foxboro I think there is this thing
called Fox Pro and I also learned C++
probably mid 11th or 12th and of course
I don't know what the classes and things
like that at that point of time very
basic understanding but I knew what a
for-loop is what in the Phils condition
is and stuff like that but it took me
huh it took me quite a while to get a
good grasp and to become a decent
programmer who can write decent programs
it's it's not like a switch that you
turn it on and you have answers it's not
like that it will take a lot of practice
to be honest with you there are no
shortcuts here as always
anything that is useful skill to learn
in life would not have shortcuts if it
were if there was a shortcut to learn it
then that skill is mostly useless right
so I'll give you I'll guide you through
the right path but there are no
shortcuts let's be honest here ok so
let's start with so I'll try to focus on
all of these aspects of course we will
introduce you to new new libraries and
explain you how new libraries are
extremely easy to pick up we'll also
teach you how to break down a problem
how to experiment search debug and learn
basically so we'll start with some
simple problems
we'll go to web scraper by the end of
this session okay so just a second let
me see if everything is okay here on the
live sessions okay okay okay somebody
was also asking about SQL I'll come
there so we have actually covered
excusive Lea in the course we actually
take IMDB data set and what we have done
is we actually show you how to actually
build a how to use SQL in the real world
data so here is this question how to
learn SQL there are many good sources
there is a good source called w3schools
if you're not a registered student which
has some nice tutorials or if you're
registered student we have lot of
content on SQL itself we take IMDB data
and show you and introduce you each of
the concepts why are the real-world
examples from IMDB data sets okay okay
let's so I hope that no issues here so I
will go back to the discussion itself
okay so let's start with a very simple
problem okay then we'll take slightly
complex problem and then we'll jump to a
web scraper okay bear with me I'm
starting very very simple here some of
you may think this is to Kadesh but this
is how logic will be built right so the
first problem is
okay so the first question so the first
product the first program is fine if
they find if a if a number find if a
number is prime or not okay the moment
you see this okay this is a mistake that
a lot of people do the moment people see
this problem definition they start
coding that's a bad habit unless you're
a terrific coder unless you're a
brilliant coder the first thing that you
should try and do is break down this
problem the first task that you should
do here is okay I've written it here
anyway very clearly write down the logic
how you would find it forget about code
and all of that first write down the
logic on have given any number if I give
you a number five how do you determine
five is prime or not first get that
logic right in your head write down the
steps and while writing down the steps
if you can write down using concepts
that you already learned you learned
about conditions like offense conditions
you learned about while loop and for
loop or functions and recursion right so
basically what you're trying to do in
step one is you're writing the logic if
possible using the conditions that you
already know by breaking down the
problem into smaller components so we'll
do that step by step okay first thing
forget about everything let's try to
explain this in English before we even
use conditions functions etc right well
how do I determine if a number is prime
or not suppose I have a number N equals
two let's say 12 or let's say 13 okay 13
I won't determine if this is prime or
not what do I do I take all the numbers
between two so on so forth up to 12 okay
I'm giving you the simplest algorithm
there are more optimal algorithms I'm
not even going there okay so this is not
about optimality this is about writing
working code as a first step so how do
you how do you determine if a number is
prime or not what is the simplest way
you check if each of these numbers can
exactly divide your n not not so first
you check if 13 divided by 2 what is the
reminder okay what is the remainder when
you divide 30
by two okay so you see if each of these
numbers 2 3 up to 12 if it can if any of
these numbers can divide your n then it
is not a prime then it is not a prime
right if they cannot divide then it is a
prime so simply put if you were to write
the logic in English you say if n is not
divisible if n in not divisible by 2 3
so on so forth n minus 1 if it is not
divisible then n is a prime number
then n is prime right else otherwise
forget about the terminology otherwise
it's a prime it's it's not a prime right
otherwise it's not a prime this is how
we would explain it to a small kid this
is the logic right I am not even going
into the code right now this is simple
logic right so once you've got the logic
right that's that's what is important
right so now we've got the logic right
you got the logic right try to explain
this logic using the tools that you have
at your disposal what tools do you have
you have the concept of
you have the concept of conditions like
if else you have the concept of loops
you have the concept of functions let's
say let's just use this simple construct
of course the more car ideas like
recursion classes all of those right but
let's for simplicity let's just say
using these example using these concepts
forget about the programming language
that you are coding in okay if you get
this part right writing code is
basically converting the logic that you
got into some programming language
syntax that's all there is
okay so let's ignore the programming
language for a while and write down okay
write down using this construct so
you'll say first you want to input n
okay you want to input n and store it
into a variable okay you want to input a
number so let's write this so N equals 2
input a number input a number right of
course if the number is equal to 1 1 is
neither frame prime nor nor is it a non
prime number so that number cannot be 1
0 there is no point in it right so you
want to input a number that is greater
than 1 obviously right otherwise again
you want this to be an integer okay not
just a number an integer now once you've
got this I'm just trying to be
mathematically accurate here once you've
got this what do you want to do okay
you want to check if n is divisible so n
is you want to check if n is divisible
by 2 3 4 so on so forth up to n minus 1
see the moment you want to do as check
like is n divisible by something
multiple they look at this by multiple
values here that's what you want to do
right so the moment you see something
like this this should remind you of a
for loop because in a for loop I can say
for I equals to 2 to n minus 1 okay
again I'm not writing code in any
language here I'm just writing the logic
that I got for some variable i from 2 to
n minus 1 including 2 and n minus 1 okay
if n is
divisible by ie right because now your
eye is taking 2 3 4 and minus 1 if n is
divisible by I okay if n is divisible by
I so how do you measure if the number is
divisible by I or not there is something
called as a modulo operator you might
have learned this when you learnt about
operators in Python or operators in any
language for that matter okay if I
modulo sorry if n modulo if n modulo I
is equal to zero okay let me not write
the C syntax here okay if if n modulo I
is equal to zero you would say not a
prime you would say not a prime right
and you check it for all of them
because you've already declared that
it's not a crime there is nothing else
to check for example if your input
number is 12 first you check with two
okay
12 modulo two is zero no which means 12
is exactly divisible by two you don't
have to again check if 12 is divisible
by 3 4 etc now it's you already declared
that it's not a prime so nothing to
worry then you exit ok again I'm not
writing the optimal code I am writing
the code that is simplest ok and at the
end of this whole for loop if you have
not exited what does that mean if you
have not exited at the end of this whole
for loop what does it mean it means your
n modulo I your n modular I was not
equal to 0 for all possible values of I
because I is taking values from 2 to n
minus 1 right so the moment this this
for loop came out the moment you exited
the for loop without exiting the whole
program you can say this number has to
be a prime because I already checked it
with all the numbers between 2 to n
minus 1 and in all these cases when I
tried n modulo ie I never got 0 very
simple algorithm of course this is not
the optimal algorithm by any means
so whatever done I have taken my English
I have taken the concept that I wrote in
English which is if n is divisible by
these numbers this or 3 or this or this
then not divisible sorry if it's not a
little bit 2 & 3 and so and so and so
then n is prime otherwise it is not
prime the other way of writing this is
if n is divisible if n is divisible by 2
or 3 or 4 or or any of these numbers
till n minus 1 then right then n is not
a prime then n is not a prime else it is
a prime else it is a prime right so this
is another way of writing the same thing
in English
so whatever done I have taken something
that I've written in English and I've
converted into simple code so this code
is often in computer science called as
pseudo code because this is actually
not code itself in any programming
language this is not code this is how
the logic flows but remember here we
have used all the key constructs we have
understood the concept we have used the
concept of a variable we have used the
concept of a loop a for loop we have
used the concept of an if write so we we
have used conditions we have used loops
and we've used the concept of a variable
and we've also used an operator here
called the modulo operator right so the
key thing is first given a problem try
to write it down in English the way you
understand it then convert it into some
pseudocode try to write this in
pseudocode again this is for beginners
if you're an expert you can write code
directly then
Russian or what tool can I use to input
a number in Python so convert each of
your lines of pseudocode into program
enough ok so let me show you some very
simple crude program that I wrote here
look at this what ever done num equals 2
input this so this input function this
input is a function here right
helps me input a number and we'll
convert that into integer so this line
this line is exactly same as this line
here so what am i doing I am right
taking my pseudocode converting into the
programming language of math choice once
I have this logic I can convert into
Python I got converted into C C++ any
language of my choice okay then what am
i doing I am saying for I equals to
range to common umm which means from 2
up to from 2 so what does this range
function do again we discussed this in
the course and if you don't know again
this is a good question
if you don't know what this range
function does ought to be more important
if you don't know so if you don't know
how to write this I diretor from 2 to n
minus 1 let's assume you forgot the
syntax or something like that how do you
figure this out ok so let's just go to
google come in that's the easiest way to
do it ok so let me go here so Python
sorry let me type it down here so I'll
simply say Python for loop 2 to N let's
say 2 to n minus 1 I'm just literally
writing if I just go here okay there
tons of the tons of tutorials here to
help me okay so the immediately you'll
see a function like this right
immediately the very first Google search
link shows you that if you write range 4
to 10 it gives you 4 5 6 7 8 9 so all
the numbers starting from 4 up to 10
minus 1 what did I do I just Google
search the question that I had on my
mind I simply google searched for it and
oftentimes you may not find the answer
in the first search result itself you
might have to read through 3 or 4 search
results when you google search or you
might have to modify
google search result right so very
simply speaking if you don't know if you
do not know how to do this just Google
search for it for example if you have to
write code in let's say Ruby for those
of you who don't know Ruby is a
programming language
I don't know Ruby but we can simply
understand how a for loop works in Ruby
by just doing the same Google search for
example I'll tell you I don't know Ruby
by the way hard loop Ruby okay okay
there is some tutorial here let's just
go and see by the way to be honest I
don't know Ruby okay not at all okay
this is while loop right
is there a for loop in I'm just checking
is there a for loop in Ruby I don't know
I'm also still saying Ruby while
statement Ruby while modifier
Ruby until Ruby until Ruby for statement
okay let's look here okay so this seems
to be the syntax in Ruby for I in zero
dot dot five okay so what does it do
when I do this when I do
though up to five including five unlike
Python okay so if I were to actually
write this code in Ruby where which I
don't know at all I can just look at
this what is it doing it is saying for I
in 0.5 right then immediately what will
I try I'll say for I in 2 dot dot n
minus 1 I don't know if this will work
in Ruby or not I actually don't know I
don't know if this is right syntax also
but I'll try it
I'll experiment it might fail then I'll
again Google search and try to find the
answer right so if you are given if you
have this statement and if you don't
know how to write it in any programming
language just Google search for it there
tons of resources online to help you
this is how I learned most programming
languages I actually read the very
basics get started right just just
simply get started and get going right
so okay so look at this so if I don't
know this range function I'll just
Google search for it and find that this
range function works okay just ignore
this print statement I'll come to it in
a few minutes just ignore that for
enough
that's for debugging let's ignore that
then of what I am saying how do i
compute modulo operator now what is my
next claim if n modulo I equals to 0 if
I don't know how to compute modulo
operator next question right again just
a Google search away again a simple
Google search of a let me just change
here Python modulo operator sometimes a
good example is example this type
example people will tell you against a
core flow is a phenomenal resource if
you just do this people will give you
hundreds of resources okay see it says
nine percent age 2 is 1 ok it says
percentage the symbol percentage
evaluates the reminder somebody told me
the answer right there and then right so
if you don't know anything
everything is mostly a Google search
traffic right so the moment I realized
that percentage is a modulo operator I
said if this is true then print not a
prime and exit if I don't know how to
exit if I don't know how to exit a
program again a Google search away just
Google
how to exit how to exit a program how to
exit a program Python of course you
might have to re-edit this a little but
then you'll get this answer and what
have you done it checks all of them if
it doesn't if this program doesn't exist
exit which means each this your number
or n is not divisible by all the numbers
between 2 and up to num minus one
including num minus 1 because that's a
range is defined right and hence you say
it's a prime number so what have we done
the 3 steps to it first grasp the
concept in English try to write it in
the simplest English sentence or
paragraph
instruct that you already know you know
that there is something called a for
loop you know that there is something
called a variable you know that there
must be some modulo operator some
conditions that's all just try to
convert into this once you convert into
this translating that to code is trivial
and you can run you can convert this to
any programming language for that matter
okay so the key here is the most
important step is to get the logic right
this is the most important step once
you've got the logic right being able to
translate that to pseudocode is very
important
once you gordon pseudocode you can
translate it to any language if you know
the basics of that language even if you
don't know the basics of the language
you can google search for it and write
decent code not the optimal code but
decent code okay so very simple nothing
very fancy or of course I can execute
this here and show you that this works
obviously let's say I have five okay so
I'll come to these statements I'll come
to these statements and why this print
statements are there okay
I'll come to that in in a couple of
minutes okay back to our back to our
notes dock again I'll share this notes
for you I'll share all the links that
are here but the key thing here is write
the logic and convert it into a pseudo
code using conditions loops functions
recursion break the problem into smaller
components okay then write your code of
course Google search can help you there
is a third very important thing if your
program is not working as expected what
do you do so we have a section called
debugging Python code in our inner
course but there's a much much simpler
thing you can just literally print and
see what's happening for example but let
me show you this code here let me show
you this code so here while this loop is
running I want to understand
so this print line is here just for me
to understand what's happening
internally okay me hypothesizing what is
happening is different from what is
actually happening internally right so
what do I do here I print num I print I
and I print num modulo I I print these
three things so that I know exactly what
is happening inside this loop and I can
verify what is half
in this loop is it exactly same as what
I think it is okay so for debugging if
you if you're not comfortable with using
debuggers like python debuggers etc
simple print statements can help you
that's how most that's how I learn to
debugging at least okay so for example
let's look at this okay so python is
prime suppose let's assume I enter a
number like 19 it says you my enter a
number like sorry okay let's say you my
enter a number like 19 so first what it
does it says my input number n is 19
okay I'm trying to divide it by two my
remainder is 1 ok then 19 because look
at the code look at the code here that's
important look at what I have in the
code what am I printing I'm printing num
I and num percentage I those are the
three things that I'm printing right so
if you look at if you look at them
happening I'm trying to print 19 which
is my number with too fast reminder is
one because the reminder is 1 nothing
happens right because if the remainder
was 0 it would have printed not a prime
and come out of that loop then I check
it with 3 with 4 so on so forth with 18
none of them if you notice none of them
are 0 because none of them are 0 it
prints prime number so just adding
simple just adding simple sorry let me
ok so just adding simple print
statements here can help you debug what
is happening and understand what's
happening internally ok so very simple
stuff nothing very fancy here again some
of you may be bored that this is too
simple an example we'll go to the more
complex examples right so this this is
the crux of it so given any problem
these are the 3 4 steps that you can do
to actually write simple programs again
now you might wonder how do I become
good with programming there are no
shortcuts here you got to practice you
got to practice practice practice
ok so this is this is a very nice link
where you have hundreds of programs
Python programs that you can practice
there is another thing which is read
other's code right you it's very good to
read others code and see how they
implemented it ok to learn good
programming practices but just reading
others code will not make you a good
programmer just because you read
Shakespeare just because you did
Shakespeare doesn't mean that you can
write as good as good and literature as
Shakespeare right so you got to read
others code to be able to appreciate and
learn good programming practices but you
can't escape writing your own code okay
you cannot let let's be let's be fully
honest here there is no escaping the
fact that if you are not a good
programmer the only way to improve is to
program program program ok so let me
show you this is a very nice list of
examples look at this they start with
the simplest of examples
Python program to add two numbers that's
what that's where they start okay then
they keep increasing the complexity
again most computer science students
most computer science students during
their undergraduate days would have
returned this in maybe C C++ Python Java
whatever it is right this is how many
people learn programming in the real
world okay then Python program for
factorial of a number of course if you
click on any one of them you will get
code okay so for example if I click on
this I will get some code in Python okay
some explanation and some simple Python
some simple code this is like a
recursive code okay there is also a
nitrate if code and all of that stuff
okay the key the key here is look at the
problem if you look at the solution you
are not learning much let me tell you
that first look at the problem try to
write the code yourself try to write the
code try to write the code yourself
struggle through it that struggle is
mandatory if you want to become a good
programmer okay struggle through it you
cannot escape this fact in the long run
if you want to become a good programmer
write it it is a skill it is just like
swimming or it's like it's like running
marathons the more you do the better you
become right it's it's like learning
bicycling right when you learn to cycle
right exactly similar stuff the more you
practice the better you become so these
programs are very very simple programs
and you can so write your own code once
you write your own code struggle through
it use print statements to understand
what is happening and then read the code
that they have provided also because
that will give you additional data
points right so there is no escaping the
fact of actually programming and
struggling through it that's why even in
our course we want students to do
assignments because that's the only way
they learn about the real world and pick
up these skills not just in programming
okay I'll come to optimize school and
all of that let's take a second simple
problem okay suppose imagine I have a
list of numbers let's say 1 2 1 4 6 8
suppose I have a list of numbers I want
to compute the frequency of each number
what is the frequency frequency
basically means the number of times the
number of times each each number or each
element occurs in your list right that's
what it is suppose you imagine you are
given a list like this ok
imagine you are given so this is problem
too ok so imagine you're given a list
okay you're given a list 1 1 1 2 3 2 3
ok 4 4 4 ok now I want to count how many
ones are there how many twos are there
how many threes are there and how many
fours are there that's what is it's
called the frequency count or finding
the frequency of occurrence of each of
these elements so how many ones are
there so to do it how do I do it
manually I go through each element I go
through each element and I literally
count how many times one exists right
the moment you see that I'm repeating
something many times it should remind
you of for loops obviously right right
it should remind you of for loops
logically speaking so here I say one
exists 3 times 2 exists 2 times 3 exists
2 times 4 exists three times how would I
do that
I basically counted so basically I
created a new array right now you've
learnt about arrays or not ok so imagine
I have 4 elements 1 2 3 4 whenever I see
one let's assume all of them are
initialized to 0
the moment I see one what will I do I'll
increment this or I'll increase this by
1 at the moment I see one I'll increment
this by 1 so again I see one so what
should I do
I should increase this again by 1
because I have seen 1 2 times again I
see 1 what should I do
I should increase this by 1 now I see a
2 so this should increase by so this
increased by 1 because I've seen to one
more time
now I see 3 as soon as I see 3 what
would happen I should now increment this
now again I see 2 which means this
should get incremented now again I see 3
so this should get incremented I see 4 3
times
so first it will become 1 then it will
become 2 then it will become 3 finally
now I can say yes one occurs three times
2 occurs 4 times 3 occurs 2 times 4
again occurs three times right very
simple logic so of course you can write
your own code so first thing what did we
do
we tried to solve the problem right
using our own intuition first we try to
understand the intuition or the law
could using arrays or hashmaps right if
you know hash maps or if you know
as it is called in Python or
dictionaries right they're also called
as hash maps in other languages
again we discuss this extensively in the
course right and of course you you have
to know for loops all right you know how
you should know how to increment the
value right using these logics using
this you can convert the logic that we
just discussed right enough into
pseudocode you can convert this whole
thing into pseudocode once you convert
everything into pseudocode the third
step is translating into Python this is
the third step right of course this
program is slightly trickier than the
previous one but both of them are simple
loops but there is an other way to solve
this problem this is one way this is one
way by the way in programming there is
no single way to solve a problem if you
ask two people to write the program very
likely if they have not cheated there's
a very high likelihood that they both
will write very different programs right
so let's see how to actually count
frequencies suppose I want to figure it
out of course I've thought through this
logic all of that stuff very good is
there another way it's always good to
learn multiple ways to solve a problem
because that improves your knowledge
base okay so I will say frequency and
say how to how to compute frequency of
items in Python that's all how to count
the frequency of elements in a list
Stack Overflow very first question okay
so somebody has this question that I
have very good question exactly what we
want right
Google is terrific with the search
results I have these numbers I want to
count how many times each of these
numbers occur okay so as soon as you go
people have written like this is a
slightly more complex way of doing it
just don't read only one answer read
multiple answers or here is a very
simple line right if you should notice
this this line is very simple there is
this thing there is this module called
collections
or a library called collections and you
can create a counter object and if you
say a print counter it'll literally
print how many times each of these is
occurring so what has happened is there
is an existing function called counter
right there is an existing function
called counter in the collections module
which actually does that for us but
let's learn more about this instead of
just using the same thing it's actually
learn more it's very very important the
moment you realize this you should read
the function definition or function
reference counter and say in collections
even reference okay okay so I have
collections and I have counters
I'm trying to do this almost live here
with you okay so I have a counter here
okay so let's go to counter so what does
the counter do I hope this is the same
collections not counter okay so a
counter is a dicta subclass for counting
hash table objects it is an unordered
collection where elements are stored as
dictionary keys bla bla bla bla bla bla
bla
it's always good to see code trust me
okay there is nothing there is nothing
better than actually of course because
when when you read Python reference this
is the Python original official
documentation so they try to be very
very accurate very very rigorous with
every statement that they make so the
best thing of course if you can
understand this that's great
but if you cannot understand this which
could happen to many people because you
may not know what is a subclass you may
not know what is a hash table object
right the many terms that you may not
know so the best thing for word then is
just say elections counter right
examples again what are we doing great
you're saying counter dot values right
so the moment you say this okay on
hacker rank there are some examples here
okay just go through as many examples as
possible okay somebody has given some
nice example okay okay here is a problem
okay my list bla bla bla and again when
you go through examples like this things
will become much more clearer for you
there what is this person doing is
basically creating a list and there
print counter of this list so it's
basically saying to occurs four times
three occurs four times etc etcetera
etcetera five occurs 1 times etc so
that's what it is literally doing right
so by just reading through example Z
function reference gets hard for you the
easiest way would be to read multiple
examples right so of course it's good if
you if you can implement this with your
own logic certainly this is one way of
doing it the alternative way the
alternative way there are many ways of
doing it by the way the alternative way
is to use color
Shen's dot counter and how did I know
this as his Google search for it and I
just didn't just Google search for it
and got the code I tried to learn about
how this counter works either by reading
the function reference either by reading
the function reference and if sometimes
reading the function reference is hard
then it's very be easy to actually go
through many many examples to understand
what's happening because this of course
function reference is certainly a more
rigorous way of learning it but if you
don't understand it for some reason
because you're still a newbie and you're
still learning the basics this is one of
the best ways okay so the key here is
again the key here is write the logic
translate that into code obviously write
your debug statements write your debug
print statements to understand what's
happening so that you get to know what's
happening literally right again there is
there are no shortcuts here it's all
about practice again I'll I'll provide
the link to this whole document at the
end of this session as one of the
comments for the video so don't worry
about taking notes I'll provide this
whole document to you right very very
important to read others code to learn
good programming practices you can't
escape that
you can't escape writing your own code
there's a very key thing that some of
you who are actually good programmers
might be thinking writing code
effectively and writing optimized code
right are two different things
here what we discuss till now is writing
some code writing working code writing
some code that works ok writing some
code that works not necessarily the most
optimized code so writing optimized code
would require you to note two things
again in the course itself we discuss
Lord
structures and algorithms right we
discuss about hash tables okay in the
context of dictionaries we discuss about
advanced data structures like KD trees
right when we learn I think when we
learn K nearest neighbors we learn
advanced data structures like KD trees
when we learn decision trees right we
learn about a data structure called a
tree right we also learn about various
algorithms like how to search for an
item right how to search for nearest
neighbors using KD tree right so in
machine learning also we use lot of data
structures and algorithms like we learn
lot of machine learning algorithms and
optimization algorithms like stochastic
gradient descent etc right so algorithms
is a huge subject
they're also classical data structures
and algorithms that computer science
students learn off so this will
certainly help you become a better
programmer okay if you have time if you
are willing in if you are willing to put
in the effort learning data signs and
algorithms
asari learning data structures and
algorithms is a very good investor
investment of your time to become a good
programmer to become a actually very
good programmer if you want to become a
very good programmer in the long run it
is good if you can learn data structures
and algorithms and similarly to write
optimized code you need to learn the
language in detail for example here I
don't know Ruby so I can't write
optimized code because I don't know how
the language works internally I can
write very efficient C C++ even Java and
Python code because I've spent years
writing code in C C++ Java and Python
and understand lots of internal details
of these languages right I know of what
how memory is allocated in see how
memory is Delocated in see how
references work in python all these
program specific details I understand
very well so to write optimized code you
have to learn both the programming
language and become good at data
structures and algorithms but to write
working code not necessarily optimized
code you don't have to be an expert in
all of them certainly knowing them is
beneficial it's not let's not kid
ourselves with that
on time there before we go to the second
part okay I'm here and let's go to the
comment section okay
okay let's go through some important
ones okay I just scroll a little so that
I can answer more okay so of course
there somebody was suggesting that we
can check if a number is even we don't
have to do it obviously there are many
optimized ways of checking if a number
is prime or not I'm not denying that
what we wrote is a very very simple very
very simple stuff okay very very simple
algorithm of course if you can optimize
it using some properties of prime
numbers that's certainly beneficial but
let's get the basic code first and then
let's do the optimized code later okay
so while I'm going here some books for
data structures and algorithms there is
one book which I would call it literally
the the best book that I've ever read in
my life I still have that book right in
front of me on my on my on my bookshelf
this is called introduction to
algorithms by Carmen leiserson rivest
and stein it properly called as CLRS I
think this is the best book I've ever
read for data structures algorithms in
my life I bought this book in 2004 in my
BTech second year first semester and the
book is still with me I still refer to
this book whenever I get stuck from some
data structures algorithms I don't know
how many times I've written on it I've
highlighted it it's like it's like a
terrific book it's it's if you want to
read a book for the destruction of
Gotham's especially of course this is
not like an expert level book but this
book has helped me over the last 15 16
years whether I have been working at
top-notch companies or as a student
right so that's the best book if you
want to pick one
somebody's asking why not are why more
emphasis on Python very simple again
I've explained this multiple times on
different on different videos also see
Python is a more general-purpose
programming language right are on the
other hand is specific for statistics so
certainly there are more libraries
available for Python so if you're
learning a language why not learn a
general-purpose language you can build a
web browser in Python you can build a
web scraper in Python you can build
literally Google search on using Python
today right you can write world class
code using Python and deploy it in
production large-scale code of course
are is catching up are is very strong
with statistics not so strong with other
aspects so if you are picking up a
language by not Python that that's a
counter-argument because Python has very
good libraries for everything from basic
statistics plotting tools to to deep
learning whole of machine learning
[Music]
bite them right again don't get stuck on
a language that doesn't mean are is not
a good language I've used our personally
a few times like I've started learning
from FoxPro C C++ Java Python dotnet
I've tried a little bit of pearl in
between I write a lot of shell scripts I
write I've written a little bit of
c-sharp also and asp.net a couple of
times I bet a lot of PHP code for a for
a while I've for the last few years I've
moved to Python and Python has become my
primary programming language but if
there is some library that is not
available in Python but available in are
I just pick it up what is there and
picking up a programming language it's
just a Google search away of course
becoming an expert in a programming
language will take time but just writing
functional code if you got the logic
right writing functional code is very
simple it's just a Google search away we
just saw Ruby a while ago right so okay
so let's go ahead let's go up a little
somebody was asking about the previous
live session I think we sent on slack
the Google Doc to all students so if
you're registered student if you're not
on slack please join our slack official
channels and all the data we share
constantly on slack it's a very very
active group on an official slack so we
already share I think I shared the
Google Doc ten minutes after the live
session so it's available for everyone
to check out okay there's some general
questions about applied a course I will
not go into them if you have any
questions about general questions about
machine learning or apply to a course
please
call us on the phone numbers on our
website I want to stick to I want to
keep this session limited to how to
write programs efficiently how to build
a scraper I don't want to deviate into a
platter a course content or machine
learning and things like that
okay please sorry for that
okay okay any other question here how
important is make ml models using
libraries that's what most people do
anyway I don't see anything exciting
anymore yeah people have been asking me
about applications of machine learning
in various areas we'll do probably a
different live session I want to confine
this live session to writing good and
good programs effective programs and to
build a simple web scraper because a few
students have asked us about web
scrapers and okay before we go into web
scraper just a quick water break for me
I think we're almost an hour into it so
next one or I will try to spend for web
scrapers before I go into web scrape but
there's a very interesting thing I won't
tell you just give me a sec okay so you
might wonder what is web scraping in the
first place okay so I'll explain in that
a little before we dive into it so again
why is web scraping important we'll come
to that so a very interesting way to
actually build your own portfolio of
projects or do you do your own case
studies in machine learning very
interesting way what a lot of people do
is this you get data from the internet
like for example you get data from
Kaggle dot-com or Wikipedia or other
data sources you get the data you build
some machine learning models on top of
it you do some data analysis machine
learning deep learning models you try
out multiple model shakes be in the
business context you explain how to
deploy the model you do all of that
that's great that's certainly a very
good portfolio project or a good project
for you to showcase your skills in
machine learning and data science there
is one piece which can make your
portfolio terrific okay actually
brilliant which is obtaining your own
data lot of times people actually obtain
data from Kaggle or from other sources
where people already collected the data
again by the way we have done this a lot
in our course case studies also there is
one very interesting course case study
about Amazon Apple recommendations
wherein we got the data about
I think a few hundred-thousand apparel
products on amazon.com we actually got
the data from Amazon from Amazon website
and built models on top of it right this
data was not given to us on a plane
we didn't download it from anywhere we
wrote scripts to actually obtain this
data of course I'll tell you how to
obtain the data how we wrote it all of
that in a little while but just because
we have done that now imagine you have
imagine you have two projects or two
case studies that you've done one case
study where somebody gave you the data
you did all of the machine learning
pieces very well okay you wrote a
brilliant blog you have a nice github
profile everything that's one project
let's call it p1 suppose there is the
second project where you did all of the
machine learning part data analysis blog
you did all of that very well
plots everything but instead of getting
the data from kaggle like in your case
one you actually wrote scripts to get
your own data that is case two so if you
present case two as your as a case study
that you have done your chances of
showcasing your skills not just in
machine learning but also programming at
large because now people will say oh
this person is not limited to just data
said somebody giving a data set this
person is going out there grabbing the
data that he wants in a in a you know in
a legally compliant manner of course
I'll come to legal compliance and all in
a little while so he's updating the data
he's writing code to obtain the data
himself and building models on top of it
that showcases your skills both as a
programmer as a go-getter because data
was not given to you you wanted to solve
a problem you went and got the data that
shows you in a very interesting light of
being somebody who gets the data that he
or she needs very interesting
so to do a great machine learning
project in addition to doing all the
machine learning components if you can
somehow get the data that you need
yourself that is like bonus points
now the obvious question here is how do
I get the data okay so we I hope I
convinced you that getting your own data
if you if there are instances where you
can get your own data that adds value
the immediate question is how do you get
your own data obviously if the data is
owned by a company let's assume the
company doesn't want to share the data
you should not touch it
because there will be legal
repercussions for it for example I'll
give an example
okay so there is so for example Amazon
is very reluctant to share their
customer review data because customer
review data of Amazon is super critical
to Amazon's business it is something
that only Amazon has lot of customers
come to Amazon because of their customer
data so Amazon will stop you if you try
to grab their data from their websites
or scrape they did the word there is
scrape scrape basically means you write
some code to visit a webpage okay you
write some code to visit a webpage just
get the whole content on the webpage
that's what is called scraping okay
within scraping you have to be very very
careful not to violate the policies of
the website that you're scraping you
have to be very very careful not divided
because there will be legal
repercussions for example if I write a
script to simply scrape amazon's product
reviews amazon has a terrific system
which detects that i'm trying to do this
and it will block me okay and if this
case is severe there have been instances
where amazon has taken legal cases on
perpetrators who have already been
warned but the amazon doesn't want to
give you that data there are other
pieces of data that Amazon is willingly
is willing to share right so Amazon is
willing to share the product name
sometimes even the product price
sometimes not always or the product
availability so there are some pieces of
information that Amazon is willing to
share there are others which Amazon
doesn't want you to have of course
Amazon might share some of this
information with some companies like
Google for example so for example how
does Google work think about it right
Google literally crawls the internet
which means
goes to almost every webpage on the
internet right scrapes the page obtains
all the information in the page and
stores it on their servers so that when
you search for it it's able to bring
that information to your disposal ok so
what Google is doing is basically an
internet scale web scraper but companies
want to be on Google Amazon allows
Google to scrape their information
comfortably that's because Amazon wants
their products to be searchable through
Google right on the other hand Amazon
doesn't want their competitors to be
able to crawl and to be able to scrape
the information on their web pages right
so to be honest with you scraping has
legal repercussions so you have to be
very careful before you scrape the
webpage please read the policies and
terms and conditions of the website and
oblige by them okay I'm being I mean
very very serious here okay please don't
take it lightly because I know a few
companies which got shut down because of
it and few individuals who are behind
bars because of it
okay you I know Amazon instead of taking
legal actions against some individuals
and companies for things like this
having said that the second best way to
obtain data is through you something
called as ap ice we have discussed this
one in one of our previous sessions so
the way an API works is like this okay
okay let me just explain you here with
hands right suppose this is Amazon right
this is Amazon servers Amazon servers
say you can call a function that is
sitting on a server on Amazon okay you
just call this function and say I want
to I want to see the top hundred search
results when I search for let's say a
kurta or or a t-shirt let's say my
search is t-shirt for men I can just
call Amazon Search API Amazon provides a
search API by the way I can just call
this API this API which is residing on a
server gives me the top hundred search
results Amazon literally lets you do
this much more efficiently so if there
is an API available to obtain data
legally which is provided by the company
or the web
please use that that should be the best
one so for example for our Amazon fine
food reviews no for our Amazon sorry not
fine food fashion discovery engine we
have a we have a case study called
Amazon fashion discovery engine what we
did was we did the the legally compliant
way we used Amazon's prot Search API we
call this we call the Product Search API
and said we want to we want to see the
top products for t-shirts
of course we call this ABA many times
Amazon lets you call this API only a few
times per second or a few times per
minute
we called it accordingly Amazon gave us
the data
it took us it took us like a couple of
weeks to obtain all the data that we
needed but we did it in a legally
compliant manner right using Amazon's
provided api s-- and nobody complains
when you do that okay and actually
operating the data using Amazon's own
API is wrecked and lines of Python for
literally ten lines of Python code
that's all there is
okay so if there are ApS please use them
if there are no APs and if you still
want to scrape read the Terms and
Conditions and the policies of the
company assuming that you are on the
right side of the legal system now let's
see how to actually build a simple web
scraper here I'll introduce you to new
new modules and new libraries there is
no fear in this this is a
straightforward thing okay so let me
take myself off the screen
okay so back to my notes okay again here
we are not building an Internet scale
web scraper we are building a simple web
scraper I want to make that clear I'll
show you two types of web scrapers right
the first one is a very simple web
scraper of course the web scrapers that
Google builds are like again there are
companies which have hundreds of
software engineers they're like large
companies like let's say Google right
Bing Bing his own where Microsoft and
other large companies which are there in
the search space like Yandex
which is a Russian website right
similarly the large search engines right
they have hundreds of Engineers
world-class software engineers working
on their web scrapers ok and these
things actually scrape a large part of
the internet and lot of e-commerce
players right
lot of e-commerce and even regular
regular brick-and-mortar store companies
like Walmart right lot of these
companies lot of retail companies
they're called as retail companies also
scrape their competitors websites to
understand the prices of products so
that they can price accordingly right of
course of course they have to do it
within a legally compliant manner but I
know that lot of e-commerce companies
and regular retail companies like
Walmart Target General large retailers
in the u.s. they all scraped each
other's websites within a legally
compliant manner to obtain the prices so
that Evol Mott wants to change the price
because Target has some prize or amazon
has some price make some complete sense
for Walmart to scrape these pages in a
really comprehend manner and adjusts
their prices accordingly to be
competitive with both ecommerce players
and other offline retailers and for many
of these companies there are hundreds of
software engineers who might be working
on projects like this right so I'm not
competing
I'm not saying you'll be able to build a
world-class web scraper what we'll see
is a very basic web scraper and we will
build on top of what we learned in the
first part which is how to code
effectively right so we understood what
is the web scraper ok so let me let me
just draw a simple diagram here so
I just gave you a quick overview of what
a web scraper is a web scraper is
basically a piece of software that you
write to be able to get information or
get critical data that you want from a
web page
okay get data or obtain data from a web
page in a policy compliant manner
okay the policy component part is very
very important trust me okay so the
second thing is use a PS if the website
provides you one I'll show you an API
actually I just want to show it to you
so that you are clear about it so for
example I get let's Google
such API okay Python somebody is already
filling it for me okay the moment I type
this okay well I have some code here
there is actually module okay this is a
simple Python wrapper for Amazon product
advertising API let's look at some code
I can install this package okay by just
saying pick install this look at some
code here okay let's look at some code
here what does it say I can create from
amazon.com as an API and of course I
need some key that Amazon provides me of
course all the documentation can be read
here and I can say okay I can look up
for a product this is the product ID the
moment I look up for it it says what is
the product name what is the product
price all that information it gives me
right so very simple so there is already
somebody has taken the time to write
functions on top of amazon's product
advertising api and make it available
for you right so just a couple of google
search just a couple of Google searches
away you'll get some simple code read
the function documentation read more
example code and just build a simple
just build a simple stuff right actually
we did it we did it ourselves for the
Amazon fashion discovery engine a case
study right so if you have AP ice many
large companies would have ap ice right
so try to use ap ice if the website or
the company provides you one okay next
let's go to a simple static system so
what is a static system here so websites
or web pages those of you who don't know
how internet works or how they just work
or some people who don't know what is
JavaScript what is HTML I will not be
able to go into full depth because
that's like a that's like a 56 TR long
detailed course in itself so I will give
you pointers and I will give you a
high-level overview here okay with some
simple code to follow basically there
are two types of web pages most web
pages today are written using HTML okay
it's called hypertext markup language
okay so of course so the page
can be a static webpage a static webpage
is something where the content is static
it doesn't change a dynamic webpage so
there is also called as so static web
pages are built using HTML there is
something called as dynamic web pages ok
dynamic web pages use HTML and other
tools like JavaScript ok of course they
would have many other tools like Ajax
etcetera etcetera etcetera right so in a
dynamic web page right the content in
the web page the content in the web page
is not static it changes dynamically and
the moment okay I'll tell you I'll tell
you more details when I come to
JavaScript and things like that ok so
for now let's build a very simple HTML
page if I have a simple HTML page that
is static so what happens is when your
web page loads right there is some HTML
code which tells you how the web page
should look like there is some
JavaScript code ok javascript has
functions and everything like that right
you can execute this function and fill
in some details here right so when you
actually pull so for example suppose if
this is my web server ok I'm giving you
very high-level overview here please
bear with me suppose this is my web
server ok this is my web server on which
my whole web page is stored ok this is
my browser let's assume this is my
browser the moment I say I ask my
browser to fetch a web page what does it
do it brings all the it brings it brings
in all the HTML and JavaScript needed
and it executes the JavaScript on my
browser ok to render or to display the
whole page here so as soon as the web
server sends me both the HTML Javascript
and other pieces of information like
images videos etc right the JavaScript
actually runs in my web browser right
the JavaScript runs in my web browser to
be able to fill in some functionality or
some information and create the final
web page so if a web page does not have
JavaScript right if a web page does
not have JavaScript it is surely a
static webpage which means I can just
pull the HTML and everything is there
okay first things first
okay okay okay how should I go okay
let's let's open this is a nice block
okay from code camp okay this is how to
scrape web sites with Python and
beautifulsoup
okay those of you who don't know what
beautiful soup is beautiful soup is one
of the best libraries is probably one of
the best libraries to scrape any web
page this is used extensively not just
by by novices it is used even by the
largest companies in the world right
beautiful soup is basically like a
library right it's basically a library
or you can think of it as a module
whatever you want to call it right it
has a bunch of classes and functions
which enable you to scrape web pages
very easily instead of you writing code
from scratch right so that's what
beautiful soup is a new library that has
introduced you to I'll give you a basic
introduction so that you can follow up
after that okay let's take a simple
example this block is very good I will
provide a link to this also first things
first you have to install beautiful soup
without that you can't do much okay
simple tip install beautiful soup or if
you are using Python 3 pip 3 install ok
so let's understand the basic of what a
HTML page looks like ok so if you have
any page right let's take this page ok
if I right click on it if I say view
page source ok what I get enough is the
whole HTML page ok can go to any page on
the internet using your browser just
right-click and say view source so it
says this document is HTML type and it
gives you this whole thing is your HTML
code and there are some scripts in
between ok JavaScript or whatever script
it is but this whole this is what
literally this is what your browser gets
all of this this is what your browser
gets from the web server this is what
the web server sends to the browser what
the browser does not is browser takes
all of this code executes this code
okay sorry so the browser basically
takes this code executes all the
JavaScript and everything that is there
to show you this final page this is the
final page that you see this is called
the rendered page this is the actual
source code the HTML and JavaScript
source code behind this right so if you
if you have a very simple web page let's
look at this very simple web page this
is the structure of a very simple web
page it says the document type is HTML
because hTML is the is the language or
the hypertext markup language that we
use to represent web pages like this
okay so look at this this is called HTML
tags these are called tags okay again
this is a this is a vast ocean I am NOT
going into too much depth I am giving
you a very introductory video here okay
this hedge tml so everything in between
these two is what is there within your
whole stuff whole HTML page this section
is called the head this section is
called the body of the page okay so let
me show you a simple example imagine if
I if I actually store this whole thing
so imagine if I actually store this
whole thing let's actually save this as
s dot HTML okay this is this is my HTML
page now if I go to my browser and if I
say file there is this file open file
okay I go to my home page so I go to my
home folder
I said test dot HTML this is what it
looks like so this code that we had
remember this code that we had sorry
this code that we had in test dot HTML
created it literally created this whole
web page here let this I've sold it in
my home folder press - dot HTML that's
all there
right so what is happening here is this
sorry sorry sorry I just hit my mic
sorry okay so this is how a webpage is
simplest webpage is represented so what
does it have it has the HTML tags what
is to be there in the head of the page
what is to be then the body of the page
in the body of the page it says there
are two pieces there is a header h1
basically means a header okay it wants a
header which is first scraping and it
wants a paragraph which is hello world
if you want to learn more about HTML
there is a very good source called w3
schools or I'll provide this link also
w3 schools HTML this is a very nice set
of brilliant tutorials if you want to
learn HTML let me add it to let me add
it to here okay
I'll add a link here so that I can share
this doc with you and I don't forget it
this will tell you everything about what
hatch KML is what each of these tags
mean and things like that right just in
the interest of time I'm not going to
deep into how HTML works and all of that
but any web page that you have is
literally written in HTML and JavaScript
right so having said that of course if
you want to learn there is lot to learn
here
I'm skipping all of that now to scrape
again this is this is a very nice thing
mostly what I've already told you right
please check with terms and conditions
and if there is an API use it do not
request data from a website too
aggressively don't just request one page
after other page because it could break
the website please don't do that okay
again the third thing is the layout of
the website may change from time to time
so you need to be very careful okay I'll
show you some examples right so here in
this block I'm just following the
example in this block they take you to
this page this is a page on Bloomberg
okay Bloomberg is one of the largest
finance companies in the world providing
market information and stock market data
okay so in bloomberg.com
I went and saw the the price value of
S&P 500 I said be 500 for those of you
who don't know is basically a stock
of the top stocks in the u.s. top major
finite stocks okay sorry
so suppose if I want to fetch this
information from here if I want to fix
this information from here how do I fix
this basically first what are the steps
let's write down the steps right what
are the steps that I need to follow to
scrape a page ok logical steps first you
have to obtain the page you have to
obtain the web page first obviously
without obtaining the web page there is
nothing for you to scrape first you have
to obtain the web page once you obtain
the web page
let's see you might obtain this web page
by the way if I just right click on it
if I just right click on it and say
sorry if I right click on this what is
OK
what I get is the whole HTML page this
is the whole HTML page behind of course
huge page lots of information here
almost 800 lines of HTML page and when
you obtain a page right when you obtain
a web page what you get here is the
source what you obtain here is the
source of the page like the HTML and
JavaScript part right it is the HTML and
JavaScript part now once you obtain the
web page the second thing is you have to
pin point you have to pinpoint the
information that you want the data you
have to pinpoint the data or the
information you want you of course makes
a lot of sense right you want this data
so for example if I want to scrape the
the price of this talk okay if I want to
scrape the price of this talk let's say
okay then it makes complete sense for me
it makes complete sense for me that I
don't care about everything else right I
care only about this part the two
thousand seven hundred ninety two point
six seven US dollars because this is the
value of their sin P 500 index you don't
care about their hunt there'll be one
hundred or thousand things around it
this is the key information that I want
to scrape and obtain right let's assume
so you have to pin point to that and
then you understand the structure then
you understand the structure of the HTML
page of the HTML or JavaScript source
right because see again by the way once
you understand the structure because
look at this two seven nine two let's
look at this right let's look at the
source here two seven nine two which is
ctrl F here root seven nine to the two
seven nine to have this two seven nine
two point what is the number here exact
number point six seven there's lots of
two seven nine two point six seven this
data is there in so many places okay
okay this data is there in so many
places okay no now how do i how do I
find where this exact data is okay so
suppose if I want this right there is
this thing called as inspect
right see this is when a view source
there is so much of other information
that I'm not able to understand where
the head is where the tail is right so
what I can do here is I can right click
and press inspect again by the way I'm
on Chrome different browsers behave
differently okay the moment I say right
click inspect it says this information
this information to 79 to 0.67 look at
this what it says is very interesting
what it says here is this information
this information is stored in my HTML
file under something called as class
equal to price text underscore some
number so if I can directly go to this
place if I can directly because what I
have is basically my HTML file if I can
directly go to this place and obtain
this information that's great isn't it
what is one way to do it I can use grep
remember there is grep in Python
there is grep in Python grep basically
helps me to search for strings in Python
right so what I can do is I can use
again we discussed this in the course if
you don't know what is grip in Python
it's just a Google search away ok you
can search for this string called price
text wherever the string price text
exists just right after that look at
this right after this wherever the
string price text occurs with some
number here we don't know what that
number is right after that this
information is present so I can grab for
price text right and move a few steps
away we encode encode and obtain this
information and say oh I got the value
that I want isn't it right very simple
that's one way of doing it but the
problem is grep so you understood the
structure of the JavaScript and using
the structure you go to the position or
you go to the part of the of the file of
the source file you go to the part of
the source file where your information
resides where the data that you want is
present where the data you want where
the data you want is present
for example in this case we realize that
this is the data that we want to scrape
and this is present where at this place
whenever you see class equals to price
text underscore something right after
that I see my price information so so
you pinpoint you understand the
structure of the HTML code and you say I
know where to go to get the information
that I want then as soon as you get it
you basically cut out or you basically
cut the data piece that you want you
basically cut the data that you want
from the web page and store it done
that's all there is that's all there is
to web scraping but here is a problem of
course companies don't want you to just
scrape their websites left and right
they will put in lot of hurdles to avoid
you from scraping ok like Bloomberg one
of the key informations that they have
is the stock price because they make
they maintain a huge repository of stock
prices over many years and decades
actually right if you if you just go to
their website and scrape regularly all
the prices they're losing key
information that they have that they
actually sell to their clients right
that's why they're they do lots of again
websites for any critical information
that they don't want to share with you
they will try to stop you of course
again grep is one way of doing it but
beautifulsoup
is a toolkit or is a module that is
designed specifically
this was again let me show you this
right when this guy was writing his blog
this information the S&P index then was
2022 right this information look at the
class name the class name was price and
not price text so this web page
Bloomberg changed the name of the fields
change the website itself dramatically
change the names of all of these so that
people can't scrape them right we saw we
saw just now right that they've actually
changed so many like we saw price text
underscore some number right we saw
price text underscore some number here
they've changed the whole website and
the whole structure here right so let's
this code that is there on this web page
zooms right this page this code that is
there on this web page assumes that
everything is in this format okay so
what it says is this it says that this
information price is available right
first first there is a division so div
basically means a division there is a
division called basic code within the
division there is another subdivision
called as price container up right
within that there is a subdivision
called as price that is the architecture
right again if you notice HTML is like a
nested loop we've seen nested loops
right a loop within a loop within a loop
type of structure HTML is also a nested
structure not a loop structure but a
nested structure where if you notice
okay let me let me just show it to you
okay let me just show it to you so first
look at look at how it looks like within
this div okay there is a main within
this there is an other div within this
other diff other dithered a some header
some div some div so there is this
nested structure in all of HTML pages
okay again if you really really want to
be good with scraper you got to learn
the basics of JavaScript and HTML
w3schools is a good starting point okay
so enough now how do you do it now how
do you grab the price assuming that this
is the structure and the structure
hasn't changed so when you go to this
class price right there is this thing
called name class name which tells you
about the stock name also
so the class
equals two name tells you the name of
the stock that you that you're pulling
information for class equals two price
within the structure within this complex
nested structure class equals two price
helps you get the price now if we want
to get all of this information of course
writing grips is one way but
beautifulsoup is a faster way okay so
you import the libraries or this library
is very interesting what this library
URL Lib to does is it helps you solve
the first part obtain a web page so URL
Lib - URL Lib - basically helps you this
is a library which helps you obtain a
webpage again you could you could find
that from google searching okay now it
says from bs4 import beautifulsoup
of course you need beautifulsoup to
parse the to parse the whole thing right
again there is this keyword called as
Dom tree I wanted to explain that so
your whole okay let me let me zoom this
in okay your whole HTML page is stored
using something called as a document
object model where you have the whole
document within the document look at
this nested structure or a tree like
structure this is called a Tom tree
okay or a Dom nested structure what
happens is most HTML documents are
arranged like this where this is your
HTML document within this there will be
some head in the head there will be some
title in the body there will be some
header some element some link all of
that stuff so you can think of this like
a tree 3 data structure right so you can
think of so this is called the Dom tree
of a HTML page okay or you can think of
it is like a nested tree or you can
think of them like a nested structure
okay so whenever you see the word Dom in
web scrapers just understand that it is
the way that they just the the whole
HTML page is stood it's called a
document object model okay
I'm saying this is the page that I want
to scrape this is the exact page that I
want to scrape so first thing what do I
do I basically say URL Lib - dot URL
open so what does it do it it asks the
website to return this page and this
page so when it returns what it returns
to you is the source it returns you the
source of the page when you right click
and see view source that's what is now
stored in page right now once you have
the once you have the whole HTML thing
once you have the whole HTML file two
things you can do one thing you can use
grep on top of this of course but
getting grab to work will be very very
cumbersome the second option used to use
beautiful soup because it internally
uses grep extensively all right so let's
go step by step first thing that I'll do
here is I'll create a beautiful soup
variable okay think of this as a
variable and I'm saying I want a head
tml parcel because I want to parse write
or HTML page very simple next what I'm
saying is here is very good ok this is
this is actually very good now what I'm
saying here is I want this so I want to
find a header h1 which has this
attribute called class equals to name we
saw this earlier right with class equals
to name I will get the whole name box
okay so what is the name box here let me
show it to you visually so here this is
the name box this will tell me what is
the name of the stock this tells me the
price and we saw while going through
this that h1 class equals 2 name gives
me the name of the stock stock a stock
symbol that I am pulling data for and
class equals 2 price is giving me the
information of the actual price itself
so in beautiful soup what I am doing
here is I am saying see beautiful soup
is very simple this way it's saying I
want to find H one or a header one right
which has this attribute called
class equal to name or I want to find
this attribute called class whose value
is name
right the the as soon as I get that I
get something called as I stored this
result in a name box so name box stores
only the sub Dom imagine this is my hold
Dom as soon as I get this only the sub
part that corresponds to this search
because it's using a fine right
only the sub part corresponding to it is
returned as part of my beautiful soup so
beautiful soup has passed all of this
and returned me exactly where ever this
condition is met now I've used dot strip
strip basically what does it do in
Python it removes all the starting and
trailing stuff then I say print flame I
literally will get the name of the stock
knife very simple right similarly I can
get the price also what will I do I will
say now soup dot find find me a div
right which has this attribute of class
whose value is price right so as soon as
I got this I'll say my price is price
box dot text and I'll simply print it
that's it if I know so the beautiful
thing here see it literally prints these
two of course this will not work if you
try today because the website itself has
changed
using pandas do all of that is a very
very very very simple example now the
important aspect here let's look at what
we have done okay first thing we obtain
the page using URL Lib - we knew what
data that we want we wanted the stock
symbol we wanted the stock symbol and
the stock price we went through the
structure of the HTML page itself using
the inspect element using the inspect
element on Chrome okay we use this to go
to the part of the source code and of
course to actually go to the part of the
source code what did we do
we used beautifulsoup to go to the part
and we use the beautifulsoup dot find
because i know which part i have to go
to because i studied the structure of
the HTML code right to get this here
what did I do this whole part I
understood where the price which part is
the price stored in which part of the
name is stored in right since I obtained
that information I simply cut the data
that I have so beautiful soap literally
simplified the whole task because it has
this fine function if you were to do
this using grep it would have been a
nightmare trust me okay so this is a
very very simple introduction to
building a simple web scraper remember
this is an extremely simple web scraper
okay I will not claim that this is any
complex thing that's why I said but this
is a simple static web page right so we
saw the logic if you want to learn HTML
this is a great source to learn HTML we
understood what is the document object
model please don't be afraid to learn
new libraries because if you do not use
beautifulsoup
building a simple web scraper will take
you many many hours of effort using
basic grip if you google search for it
if you just google search just let me
show you that Google search right if you
say I want to build a web scraper web
scraper Python okay a very first thing
that we will get just go here just keep
reading I've read like 10 15 of these
right just to see which is the best and
most simple source look at it everybody
uses beautifulsoup for this guy is using
beautifulsoup of course he's using a
slightly different
recalled requests to get your HTML pages
instead of URL Lib - so let's look at
the second guy okay this is what we are
using anyway this is not something that
we are using so look at some other blog
right in this block he's also using
beautifulsoup
right so if you keep seeing if you see
five or six results in if everybody is
using the same library then certainly
that library must be super good and
super useful to achieve your task right
so this is an important lesson that
don't be afraid to learn new libraries
as in when you need them they will
simplify your life simple Google search
simple Google search going through
function references and reading through
examples and experimenting not fearing
of the failure will help you learn very
simple stuff right so we also saw some
simple beautifulsoup
the code that I've already posted here
next comes an important part what if
your website is dynamic right which
means your website has HTML and
JavaScript and the JavaScript actually
executes in the browser so what am I
doing with URL Lib to look and look at
what I have done earlier right with URL
Lib - right so sorry let me just go here
okay with URL Lib - okay with your Lib -
okay I literally this coat pages here I
literally obtained this web page from
the server so when I obtained this so
what if what should i what should I
actually do the two parts first there is
a there is a web server and there is a
browser here right what typically
happens in the first step I obtain the
page in the second step is acute the
JavaScript here right so in this case in
the previous instance I just obtained
the web page I didn't run any JavaScript
anywhere because to run the JavaScript I
need some libraries and some tools that
the browser internally has like your
Chrome browser right or your Firefox
right or your internet explorer or your
Safari right
so all these browsers I actually have a
JavaScript execution or or a basically a
toolkit using which it can execute
JavaScript libraries URL Lib to does not
have it so in the previous instance what
we did was we only obtained a page we
didn't run the JavaScript to actually
see the whole actual output web page so
if your web page is dynamic which means
it contains both HTML and some
JavaScript and the JavaScript needs to
be executed on your browser so that you
get the final page then the URL Lib
method so then this method of just
operating the web page is not sufficient
right so what we need is both the steps
first obtain the web page execute your
JavaScript executes to your JavaScript
how do I do this ok once I execute the
JavaScript and I get the whole source
beautifulsoup still is there I am not
denying that the first part is where the
problem is the second part third part
fourth part everything is the same it is
the first part which is I am just
updating the page but I am not running
the JavaScript how do I solve that
problem you already have a browser right
your desktop or laptop already has a
browser why can't I simply use the
browser to execute the code so there is
a library or there is a toolkit you can
think of as called selenium many
software engineering testers ok many
software engineering testing guys ok no
selenium because selenium is basically
again you can write selenium code in
Java or in Python obviously I would
choose Python because I'm more
conversant and comfortable in Python and
actually selenium code is in Python is
actually easier to write than Java to be
honest just a second
ok so if you're writing python code of
course selenium can be written again
what is what do you mean by that what it
means is you have some libraries or you
have a module which you can write which
you can access in python to be able to
do it so I'll show you I'll show you
literally a two line code ok so this is
literally a two line code ok okay so
let's see this is literally a two or
three line code to scrape a dynamic web
page ok so what do i do first thing is
from selenium input webdriver I'll
explain you what this does exactly ok
from selenium import keys some say some
simple importing stuff here is the crux
suppose if this is the I'm sorry suppose
if this is the URL that I want to grab
what I what I'm doing right now here in
this in this few lines of code so let me
just zoom this in so that it might be
clear I'll provide a link to this page
also this blog is pretty good
here I've imported the selenium
libraries that I need here I'm creating
a Firefox session look at what I am
doing here I am saying I want to create
a Firefox session literally Firefox is
there on my laptop or desktop I'll
create literally a Firefox session and
I'll wait for 30 second I think this
this means 30 seconds if I'm not wrong
or 30 milliseconds I'll have to look at
the function reference but what selenium
lets me do is it lets me open or start
any browser of my choice it could be
grown Firefox Safari edge is basically
the next generation of Internet Explorer
if I'm not wrong
it lets me literally open any browser of
my choice get the URL that I want it
will also help you simulate button
clicks I can literally click on a button
right suppose if I want to scrape Google
don't try to do that Google will block
you very quickly okay so I need to enter
some search query press enter then I'll
get a bunch of results and if I want to
scrape these results what selenium lets
me do is selenium lets me open a Firefox
window selenium helps me open a Firefox
window give me give it the URL that I
want wait for a while
enter whatever I want in a field press
the Enter key it will get some result
that result it will give me the page it
will give me this page after running
both HTML and JavaScript because look at
it what is selenium doing selenium is
literally using the Firefox browser
Firefox browser internally has has
libraries and dual kids to execute
JavaScript code so by using the browser
that I already have
selenium gives me humongous amount of
power especially for dynamic web pages
okay in addition to just one and two
selenium also helps you do actions on
webpages actions like button clicks
right it will enable me to do button
click right it will enable me to to
enter something like I know that it's
very simple to write selenium scripts
where you can give your username and
password
selenium code can actually incur them
login to your Gmail scrape the Gmail
page obtain all the information that is
there on the Gmail page and present you
on your own app it can do that okay of
course you have to be careful that
Google might block you if you try to do
that too often okay but it's possible to
write some code like that right so
selenium is the trick again selenium is
a huge library people spend a lot of
time becoming experts at selenium but
for our use case you just have to know
the basics of selenium those four five
lines are all all you need in selenium
all you need to know is how to use a
browser the moment you use a browser and
you obtain the data using the browser
because the browser internally has a
Java Script a JavaScript toolkit to
execute JavaScript you got your HTML
page and you have your JavaScript
finally you get the result this result
you can now pass it through
beautifulsoup and obtain whatever data
you want right so basically what we have
done using selenium
we have replaced URL Lib too with
selenium right and the reason for doing
that is selenium can execute JavaScript
it can also help me perform actions
which URL Lib too cannot do you are a
little bit you can just simply get me
the HTML source because it doesn't have
a JavaScript executed right so if you
want to do dynamic websites where there
is JavaScript components that need to be
executed in the browser selenium is the
way to go but don't be fearful of
selenium like it's not rocket science if
you don't if you want to perform
something if you don't know just google
search for it it's just a Google search
away that's how I learnt selenium by the
way so my team of course not me but a
bunch of very smart engineers in my team
actually use selenium to crawl a large
large number of webs webpages on the
internet for some internal project in my
own team
right so and what we did trilled it was
we use selenium it's a terrific piece of
software or terrific piece of libraries
as I should call it them right so there
is a third aspect which I did not cover
here which is websites that obfuscate
websites that constantly change that
constantly change to avoid to avoid
browser to avoid scrapers to avoid
scrapers from pulling information from
them this is a very interesting
challenge because for example we saw
just now right when we went to the
bloomberg page right the name of the
class itself might change from one
request to other requests okay let me
just show that to you okay so that you
can better appreciate it okay there is a
Bloomberg page this page right okay let
me just open it again here so let's see
so this you
I say inspect what is the value that I
get here - 79 - right what did I get
here
let me see what is the name of this
thing okay it says price text so let's
write it down what does it say price
text I'll just write it down here it
says price text underscore one eight
five three one eight five three e8k five
this is the whole name of the class this
this last section looks to be a random
number right I think they generated this
so that scraper it so as to make life
harder for scrapers because I typically
end up using the whole name of the class
right to obtain this piece of
information now by generating random
numbers here I'm assuming it's a random
number we'll test that right the class
name that I need to actually pull this
information becomes harder okay so let's
see let's see so we have this name sorry
where is this okay we have this right so
let's go to a new page let's go to this
again i refresh the page here let me
inspect it what will I get here if I
inspect it what would I get here okay so
know the name is the same okay so
they're doing some form of randomization
not exactly randomization but they keep
these names somewhat random so a lot of
websites lot of websites what they do
here is because they want to ever
but they want to avoid their people they
want they constantly change they
constantly change the names of the clerk
names of your div or names of your
headers they constantly change and make
the whole page extremely dynamic so that
scrapers can't obtain them this is an
extremely hard problem for which again
there are multiple solutions it's it's
like a cat-and-mouse game okay it's like
a cat-and-mouse game where one person
tries to do one thing the other person
tries to do the other thing so I hope
you got a sense of how web scrapers work
again to be honest I have not gone into
too much depth this is just an
introductory session I hope going
through these links and following the
methodology where you are constantly
writing the problem writing the logic
behind problem and Google searching can
certainly help you write so let me just
add let me just add this HTML thing here
so that when I share this document it
will be much easier for everyone right
so yeah so I'll go to the live live view
for a sec for a for a few minutes that
we have enough okay so let's just see
what comments we have okay so how to
know whether a page has JavaScript or
not obviously you can run the you can
run the code through selenium and you
can just get URL Lib and see if the HTML
code is different
very simple check right you can also get
data using get of URL yeah so you can
always do that obviously get is another
way like URL Lib the many ways to get a
web page URL Lib is just one method of
doing it yeah so the question here is
can i scrape javascript rendered web
page without using python selenium yeah
there are there are ideas called I mean
there are some advanced methods wherein
you don't require to actually start the
browser itself you can let get you can
simply get the whole source code and
take so again this is something that I
know a few people have tried what they
have done is they
in Firefox they have broken down the
because Firefox is open source right so
what they do is this they don't have so
they make a hole through the biscuit
retrieve or remove the functions within
Firefox which executes the JavaScript
code right
so it actually executes the JavaScript
code for you and very interestingly very
interestingly just a second I hope I am
life is checking that yeah the screen is
on me so what they do here is so they
have taken the whole Firefox source code
the pull out the information they pull
out the JavaScript executing system that
they want they pass the JavaScript
through that it will result in some
result they will take that result and
use it to build a final web page instead
of actually because if you have graphics
right because what does Firefox do
Firefox takes the whole thing renders it
graphically then graphical rendering
if you're building a real Italy
web-scale web-scale scrapers and when
internet scale scrapers and crawlers
right you can have you can save a lot of
computational effort by avoiding some of
this right so somebody is asking about
Python having too much in competitive
programming taking too much time
complexity I think to be honest Python
code is pretty decent I know I have
participated in some hacking or whatever
you call it comparative programming
stuff and Python is one of the most
favored languages certainly there are
people who write it in C C++ but if you
write the right algorithm using right
data structures using the right
complexities it shouldn't really matter
I mean Python is pretty good of course
if you are going to internet scale
extremely critical applications Python
is slow like if your difference between
if it's a life and death situation or if
it's like a millisecond gap if you have
if you want extremely low latency
systems at internet scale C C++ nothing
can even touch it or if you want
something in embedded systems right so
you have let's say a heart recoupment
which measures your heart rate or
something which needs to be very very
which means run extremely efficiently on
a very simple hardware right in those
situations also probably code is written
in C C++ and not invite them right so
okay so let's go here okay I'm just
going to
just great I'm just crawling through all
of all of all the chats here to see if
there's anything because it's I see very
interesting stuff that people are asking
questions and answering they're also so
that's a that's a very good very good
that's a very good thing hey so what
I'll do here is I'll provide the link to
this notes right under this video as the
first comment and I will pin that
comment so that everybody can watch it
I'll just share the notes here itself so
that even people who are non registered
students can also check out the check
out the PDF of this or the Google Doc
version of it so that's all I had I
think and very nice to see a lot of
students putting in their knowledge
sharing their knowledge that they have
and most importantly answering questions
back and forth thanks a lot for that and
I hope see the objective of today's X
today's live session was to teach you
how to write how to break up code and do
some simple stuff of course some of you
may have gotten bored but I thought
there are some students who need that
helping hand that's why we did the first
part the second part is to give an
introduction to web scraping right of
course web scraping is a massive area
those just on web scraping that would be
like at least at least a 20 hour content
right because there's so many nuanced
details have to go explain HTML files
first we have to go through JavaScript
next because those are foundational
stuff right then we understand libraries
like selenium in lots of detail we
understand
beautifulsoup in lots of detail so what
I wanted to give you today is a flavor
of the whole thing so that you can take
it forward and learn just the way we did
in the last session the last live
session I gave you a flavor of rasa also
gave you some introduction to dialogue
flow and some introduction to n2 and
conversational engines and some students
actually took up that that feedback
those those hints and the the path and
actually built some very interesting
things and I hope some of you actually
can build some interesting tools some
interesting scraper so if you build
interesting web scraper or a simple
scraper please share it with us
and we'll try our best to give you some
feedback on it and our ways to improve
it and it's also very encouraging for us
in doing these live sessions so I think
we are short on time we are almost done
just a couple of minutes here I want to
thank everyone who participated in this
live session both registered students
and non registered students I hope this
has been at least partially useful if
not tremendously useful so at least some
parts of it you will take away with you
and use them in your day to day
programming or day to day building web
scrapers of data science and machine
learning
thank you all thank you all for your
time and it's my pleasure always as
always to do these live sessions I will
announce the next live session topic
again next live session will be a
slightly advanced topic and for all the
registered students we'll announce that
at least a few days in advance again
we'll try and do it mostly on Sundays
and not on Saturdays as I started
earlier and yeah that's all that's all
for today have a have a good weekend
get some time with family enjoy yourself
also happy programming and happy coding
thank you folks
bye-bye have a good weekend
