hey folks our I'm trying to stream from
I fall enough just to avoid any issues
so that I can be on a 4G also let's wait
for everyone to join in I think just
wait here for a few minutes for everyone
to join in its life session so sorry for
that thank you I'm just joining from a
phone to avoid any issues so that
everybody so even if the power goes off
I can be there on a 4G so let me just
fix my phone here so that it is stable
and I don't require my mic enough I'm
hoping that by mic my phone does a
decent job so just confirm if everything
is alright if you can hear me is there
some lag sorry folks
sorry for the mess up I think the power
again in and the power again came back
is everything all right folks let's wait
for a couple of minutes for everyone to
join in right now I'm on my on my phone
enough again I think the phone Leo
called is actually better than my laptop
with with with the camera okay sounds
good sounds good we'll wait for a couple
of minutes okay so I'm just joining in
from my phone just so that even if there
is a power cut it will directly connect
from 4G I hope so again for YouTube I
think when there is a power cut it
doesn't get a stream of stream of signal
for a few minutes it automatically
assumes that it automatically issue that
the is over and you to disconnect sorry
for that okay we'll wait for a couple of
minutes just give it a couple of minutes
we'll wait everyone I think yeah I think
they look really good on the phone yeah
I just again I'm a one full span so the
oneplus one I think is doing a good job
[Music]
okay that's okay since some of you have
joined back let's continue the
discussion here apologies once again I
think the power that was cut earlier is
backing off and cause of it
my whole life at you got restarted I'm
just joining from the phone probably in
the public life sessions it might be
just better to do it from phone I don't
know I'm a junior Cummins here also
which makes this whole viewing
experience better for me okay folks so
where were we so we were discussing
about the five rounds okay here I need
to be careful with my hand gestures can
everybody hear me clearly is the audio
clear is the audio clear enough just
wanted to check if the audio is clear
okay let me do one thing let me just
connect all my phones so that you might
be able to hear me better just give me a
second is my is my but now want to check
if my audio is better than off
I'm just connected on then Despero
headphones is the audio better off just
want to check just wanted to check if my
okay I'm on my 4G just a second
sure is there a glitch from my audio
also let me just shut down my laptop is
everything all right for it one just a
second let me see if there is any more
glitch let me see if I can somehow
improvise this can everyone hear me kill
clearly enough okay so the audio is
clear thanks to the headphones okay okay
so I'm assuming I'm assuming things
about the note for most of you right so
let me just place my place my phone in
this corner is a bit rate for everyone
okay so I'm assuming the quality is okay
enough I'm just on my headphones to
ensure that there is no audio problem
okay folks since we are back yeah so
let's let's get going okay where were we
we were at okay the five rounds of
interviews right okay okay so it seems
fine to most people so I just continue
on this model okay so where to be right
now a B or at okay the five rounds of
interviews right there is a programming
interview programming and SQL typically
which could also include some data
structures and algorithms and okay so
then we had the problem solving around
the real world machine learning problem
solving the machine learning depth the
machine learning breath and the
mathematical foundations right so you
have to be careful with mathematical
foundations especially with topics like
linear algebra with topics like basic
calculus basic differentiation which is
used extensively in machine learning and
also with probability if you if you
can't solve a simple problem with Bayes
theorem that's a major red flag for me
okay that's a major major red flag
somebody says there is some audio issue
let me just check okay is this better
than off I'm on my I'm on my internet
connection okay so video quality is not
good why is it so let me let me just try
to place this year
no audio issues the video quality is
also good
okay so where were we uh we were at
these five typical rooms that we have
again these towns these rounds will
differ a lot based on the candidate okay
it depends a lot on whether you're a
fresher or you are experienced and even
if you are experienced right there are
lots of variations even if you are
experienced whether you're come what is
your prior experience is your experience
a software engineer experience is your
experience at testing engineer
experience is your experience more of a
business role like the product manager
or a program manager or is your easier X
and also domains come into play is your
experience in healthcare IT domain or in
banking IT domain or is it an e-commerce
domain again or is it in search engine
domain your prior domain also plays a
very important role right so again I'll
somebody is asking about data structures
algorithms I'll come to that just you
may a second
I'll come to that for freshers who may
not have lot of real-world experience it
will be more simple to be honest with
you the fresher interviews will still be
wait again for freshers if you want to
crack machine learning rounds it's very
very important that you build a
portfolio of projects to showcase your
skill set
otherwise otherwise it won't work right
so okay so let's go here let's go let's
go round by round and what is expected
from each of these experiences again
your experience could be various things
I've made a big list here software
engineers or software development
engineers it could be testing it could
be queueing it could be production
support it could be database engineers
or data engineers it could be your
experience could be in big data your
experience could be a data analyst your
the experience could be business roles
like marketing sales product management
program management etc and data
structures and algorithms and your prior
experience could be data science itself
right so and again your background also
might change if you're a computer
science student versus you are from
other engineering disciplines for
example if you're an easy student there
is a different expectation out of you
because ECE students as if an electronic
student comes to me for an interview I
expect him to know a lot of advanced
algorithms and data structures actually
I don't expect him to know even basic
data structures algorithms because he
has never studied them for refresher his
engineering or her engineering
background is very important but if you
come from an electronics background I
expect you I expect you to be able to
explain me Fourier transforms very well
right I expect you to come to explain
entropy very well because you study
information carry right similarly iyx I
expect you to be very good with calculus
I expect you to be very good with vector
calculus okay because these are topics
that an electronics engineer studies
much more deeply than computer science
engineer right and hence I expect from a
computer science student on the other
hand I expect you to know what is a
linkedlist what is a hash table what is
binary search the basic data structures
I am not even going to some advanced
graph theoretic stuff I expect you know
some basic data structures basic
algorithms I'm not going to ask you some
nice or drink all they are all pairs
shortest paths type of problems I am NOT
going to ask that but I'm going to ask
you some basic stuff for example this is
something that many of our students are
again your background could be an MBA
your if your background is NBA this has
a very interesting background I've
interviewed some folks from that
background if your background is MBA I
expect you to have lot of business
acumen if I give you a real-world
problem I expect you to think much more
clearly about the business then a
computer science engineer or a
mechanical engineer or a civil engineer
right for example if I give you a
real-world problem I expect you to be
able to come up with the business
requirements I expect you to think about
what is the right metric for the
business much more clearly than what a
computer science engineer can think of
right if you come from other Sciences
for example if you are if you're if
you're a student a pharmacy or if you're
a student of biology medicine physics
chemistry I expect again so many
companies what they do if they have that
if they have that opportunity right they
think of these students as they try to
have at least one interview with that
background for example at Amazon we
interview tons of physicists right
because this physics guys are super
strong in mathematics and somebody who
knows mathematics well we can teach the
machine learning in one month right so
what what we often do here is
so we used to have these have actual
physicists who work at Amazon
interviewed them for something about
physics if if I as an interview I don't
know anything I've in your background
suppose you're some chemistry background
person I know nothing in chemistry let's
assume I know nothing in chemistry okay
actually I'm pretty terrible in some
aspects of chemistry then what I will
simply ask you is this okay dude that
you're an expert in some field I am an
expert in other field I don't know your
subject let's find the common ground the
common ground is mathematics right then
what I end up doing is I end up doing
more mathematics rounds right III end up
doing one round in linear algebra
because I expect even a chemistry person
to know foundational Maxwell
because without mathematics know much
everything right so again if somebody is
from Statistics background I can we had
tons of stats PhDs and stats postdocs in
my team stats guys so I'll tell you a
personal experience right we were
interviewing the stats postdoc from one
the world's best universities for my
team this person said the whatever
problem we gave him he didn't know
machine learning he was very clear he
said I don't know machine learning I am
just starting to learn we said that's
okay but any any real-world problem we
give he would pose it as a statistics
problem and come up with a very
ingenious solution we said walk this
this guy is really smart and when we
asked when we actually did a deep status
--tx round
he literally mailed it he literally like
he was superb with that right so what
happened was we realized that this guy's
foundational again we did some
mathematics rounds for him we realized
that this person is very strong he may
not know machine learning and when you
asked him to code he said it's been
seven years that I couldn't because I
worked in I've worked in proving things
in statistics said pseudocode he said I
can write some pseudocode I've learnt it
in my BTech it's been years that I
learned I'm in my study in my be stat he
was a beast at IM stat PhD start PO stop
stack so he said I've forgotten some of
these but that's okay I said can you
write some simple pseudocode he said I
can we said t care let's hire this guy
and he is one of the top performers in
my team he picked up he picked up all of
programming he picked up SPARC he picked
up Hadoop you name it
and he he became a mentor for me later
on because he taught me a lot of
concepts in statistics that I was not
aware of this guy is after all a PhD and
a postdoc stats from some of the world's
best universities so I ended up learning
a lot of stats with this person on my
team so again this these are some of my
personal experiences again let's go
let's go round by round and based on
experience based on candidate right so
let's take program first programing
ground the easiest way to estimate how
the programming around would be is this
suppose if you're interviewing at let's
say TCS Infosys type of companies what
is a typical soft pin generate your TCS
Infosys that is the level that you can
expect at least that level or slightly
lower that that level is the type of
questions that you can expect if you are
attending an interview TCS emphasis okay
so let's broadly break down companies
into sub again there are some services
companies and product based companies
within services companies there are two
types of companies again there are
startups and services companies there
are well-established Giants even product
based there are startups like swiggy all
these companies right and with written
written start within product based
companies there are also Giants
recommends and googles and Facebooks of
the world right so typically for
programming around the rule of thumb
business what you have to suppose if
you're it if you're editing an interview
at Infosys or TCS type of companies you
look at what are the types of questions
that a software engineer interview is
asked that is the maximum level that you
will be asked for a machine learning Ram
right number one number two is number
two is again some often times there is a
scheme had again this also could change
from team to team I'll tell you how this
changes from team to team and little one
in my team we said that the interview
bar that we will have for a machine
learning engineer especially if he is
coming from a computer science
background especially if he or she is
coming from a computer science
background
here the end flips very engineer all
times when if somebody does not clear
that somebody's like slightly below that
bar he is doing very well in machine
lapping rounds we would hire them at
that pose if you're interviewing at
let's SVG or all about some of these
companies right so is there a lag nuff
I'm just curious
somebody says there is a lag here let me
just check let me just check if there is
a lag I just pause the video quickly and
be back is there a lagged nos okay oh
okay
so is it fine enough I'm just trying to
check okay so just let me know if there
is a major lag for anyone because I'm
still on my same connection nothing
changes for me okay so what if what if I
remove headphones and actually join
without the headphones how does this
look like now I just see how is this I
mean without the headphones maybe there
is some audio/video lag because of the
headphone Bluetooth connection is this
better without the headphones okay
sounds good so let me hold the phone
itself then just just so that so that I
just hold it on my hand for the rest of
the discussion okay so if you're doing
programming or so for example if you're
interviewing at let's say swiggy you
look at what are the typical questions
that are asked for that are typically
asked at the swiggy interview right for
a software engineer that will be the
maximum level that you'll be asked for
machine learning room typically this is
the typical but there is a there is a
there is a clause here if that team that
you're interviewing at does not do more
of real-world machine learning problem
solving but if they do more of
production ization of machine learning
stuff okay there again that wide
spectrum of roles there is a role called
software engineer machine learning whose
job is to actually implement machine
learning algorithms in software for
better efficiency right so those type of
roles again depends on the road those
type of roles or those type of T
whose core responsibility is to
implement machine learning algorithms
efficiently right those teams the
software engineering bar is going to be
high that that's one type of team okay
the other type of team is they take a
real-world problem in the company and
they solve it using software that is
built by others or using open source
software right so if that is the case if
that is the case then the programming
bar is also going to be lower yet again
I've seen I've seen some teams whose
primary job is it whose primary job is
to actually build large-scale machine
learning systems for that if you're if
you're joining as a software engineer
machine learning in those teams then
then you have to be you have to be
really good with software engineering
skills also okay number one number two
is for for real-world problem-solving
freshers the level of again for example
if you're interviewing at Amazon rate
you might be asked some simple questions
again I still remember my Amazon
interview
I think the software the programming
round I was I was interviewed by a
software engineering manager he gave me
a simple problem to find the peak of a
probability distribution he said I give
you a probability distribution how do
you find the peak optimally it's a very
real-world data science problem right
and I came up with a simple solution for
it he said that's perfectly all right
he asked me to explain the time and
space complexity I spent some time on
space and time complexity I explained
him and he asked me these questions
because I came from company science
background okay I did my masters and my
bachelor's in computer science so he
explains so he explains he so he expects
me to have that intuition that's why
even in our course right foremost
machine learning algorithms and for most
concepts we have given the time and
space complexity analysis because we
assume that there are some students in
our course where come design students
who should be able to answer this space
and time complexity questions right and
that's very very important right number
one number two is the concepts and data
structures that we have covered as part
of our course like for example we have
covered all the we have covered the
basic programming concepts like loops
recursion basic concepts of SQL nested
queries we have covered all these
concepts as part of our course
additionally we also covered some
important data structures like hash
tables which are also called
dictionaries in in in Python and hash
tables are one of the most widely used
data structures in whole of computer
science and we have also actually
discussed about how to use hash tables
to productionize machine learning models
in our course right also in some of our
live sessions we have discussed the next
in sibling so some of these programming
related data structures are also
extremely important right even if you
are not a computer science student
because we have covered them in our
course it would be great if you could
learn it or even if you're not a course
participant that's ok please try to
learn the most important data structures
if not all you have to know what is a
basic cue you have to know what is a
hash table these basic stuff people
expect you to know now coming to
real-world problem solving right for the
real world problem solving if you are a
more experienced candidate there is a
much more expectation out of you to
solve the problems much more end-to-end
and rigorously for example imagine
you're a software engineer with ten
years experience okay imagine you're a
software engineer with ten years
experience right then when you come to
the interview when you come to the
interview if I give you a real-world
problem I'm assuming that for the last
ten years you have been production izing
machine learning models you'll be with
not much learning model sorry you have
been writing software which means you
have lot of experience and exposure on
real-world problem solving so now when I
give you a machine learning problem I
want you to translate all the skills
that you learned right all the skills
that you learned I want you to be able
to translate them and to actually shed a
new light because most likely you'll
join as a very senior team member who
will solve and will help solving end to
end problems well if you're a fresher
I'm okay even if you give me basic
solutions I'm not because as a fresher
you don't have a lot of exposure and
experience on real-world problem solving
right so that's okay if you're a fresher
and if I tell you how do you build big
E's source wiggies food recommend
restaurant recommendation suppose I'm
interviewing for speedy and asked you
how do you how do you build speak ease
restaurant recommendation right that's
perfectly okay I'll still I'll still be
ok if you give me a reasonable first cut
solution and as long as you end again
for freshers the interviews will be more
text
Kish not too much real-world ish okay
again that doesn't mean that you were to
pick a textbook and read all the proofs
that's not what I mean it will be more I
mean people will people can easily get
away with giving first cut reasonable
solutions as a fresher but as an
experienced as an experienced person you
have to have more and more insight into
problem-solving the same with machine
learning breadth depth and math
foundations especially if you're a
fresher people expect you to know math
foundations better because you studied
calculus you studied you studied some of
these topics like linear algebra
probability much more recently than
somebody with 10 years experience right
so if you are a fresher you have to
focus more and more on mathematical
foundations because the interviewer may
not have many touch points to discuss
with you because your refresher you've
not worked on real-world problem solving
extensively right so that's very very
important equally importantly you have
to also think about your domain if you
are an experienced person let's assume
let's take some examples right suppose
you come from software testing
background okay let's say you me come
from software testing background right I
give you a problem so one of the things
that I've asked some of the people who
come from software testing background is
this very simple problem we have built a
model all that is good right we have
built a problem all that feels good now
the question here is how do you test
this model is working alright or not
here since you have software engineering
experience I expect you to know the
strategies of testing and be able to
apply that learnings to testing machine
learning models also otherwise see again
I'm trying to as an interviewer I try to
give you an advantage I try to always
tell you or try to try to help you
leverage your prior experiences
similarly if you come from production
support okay suppose you're supporting
some production work then I because then
has a production support engineer you
would have encountered a lot of
production related issues that you've
escalated to your software engineering
teams then I ask you given this problem
let's assume this is production ice-t--
what sort of problems do you envision
and what type of what type of care will
you take to ensure that this is not the
problem similarly if you come from
databases background then I ask you ton
of SQL stuff
okay because I expect you to be good at
database if you're a database
administrator the data data engineer
I'll ask you a lot of things about
feature engineering data pre-processing
SQL and all of that right if you come
from MBA rated roles like like Program
Manager or product manager then then
typically typically I'm not saying
always but typically I expect you then I
start working on more and more real
world problems because most likely I
want to leverage your existing skills as
part of my team so I'll give you a
real-world problem and say okay what
should be the KPI for this and why
should that be a KPI and not something
else okay similarly if you're a program
manager I'll ask you okay here is a
whole machine learning problem how do
you now break it and how do you set
timelines for this okay these are some
of the problems that you can expect if
you're a product manager or a program
manager okay suppose if you come from
completely non IT backgrounds suppose
you come from marketing background then
I can again start I can start asking you
problems in marketing if you come from
marketing background one of the biggest
applications of machine learning in
marketing is in digital marketing I
expect I then I start giving you a
problem in marketing or in digital
market and say how do you tackle this
you said you have lot of domain
expertise in marketing and you have also
learned machine learning now how do you
translate the skills that you have in
marketing and how do you apply the
domain knowledge that you have in
marketing to machine learning problems
okay again somebody is asking about The
Bachelor of computer applications and
MCA students BCA MCA students are
treated equal to computer science
bachelor's degree students you're just
you're very close to a BTech student as
a BCA student probably have not covered
some of the important subjects in a
BTech computer science but the the
spectrum of topics that that will be
covered it won't be very similar with
interviewers will treat you as a
computer science student because we
expect you to know basics of computer
science as a DC or an MCA student I
think most companies will assume I think
most companies also issue MCA to be
equivalent to BTech if I'm not wrong
again I'm not sure about this somebody
is asking about network engineer
background or there's a ton of exciting
stuff for network engineers if you come
from network engineering background then
I start asking questions on network
engineering applications of machine
learning for example okay for example
can you predict
what is the latency of this video okay
can you predict can you predict what
what could be the latency of these of
this video or networking related
problems the tons of problems in
networking or for example if you're if
you're a I'm sorry so if you are an
electronic student then I'll focus a lot
especially the mathematics topics I'll
focus a lot on concepts like entropy
some differential calculus especially
the vector calculus part because I
expect you to be good at them alright
somebody coming from a CP and business
domain again I'm not an expert in s AP
we expect you to have good enough
understanding of databases and how
business processes work so then I might
then two people like those right so
again two people like those we could ask
questions like okay given this whole
machine learning model what is the
production pipeline that you will set up
if you come from data analyst background
again this is a very because I've done
tons of interviews for this right so if
you're doing it for a data analyst run
right so data analysts so data
scientists again these terms are all
jumbled up I know people who are called
data scientists who just do an excel
query Excel manipulations okay so this
vitals are all messed up in the industry
they are not yet standardized but to be
frank with you if your data unless I'm
assuming that you do not play data
analysis for people like them we
typically end up because you can
exploratory data analysis will ask you
what type of analysis have you done very
well right or what type of what type of
work what type of analysis can be done
here and as a data list you have done
lot of SQL queries will also start
asking questions about SQL queries for
you right
so again if you're a mechanically here
is very good question somebody is asking
here if you're a mechanical engineer I
will ask you about mechanical
engineering applications of machine
learning like for example I think we
have a video on YouTube also if I'm not
wrong wherein we said how machine
learning and AI especially time series
analysis and deep learning can be used
for for very very importantly how do you
predict machine failure again companies
like General Drake companies like Boeing
use tons of machine learning okay
so we'll try and give you problems even
mechanical
engineering which are related to machine
learning problems right and see how we
actually solve these problems somebody's
asking about ETL developer an ETL
developer will think of them as a
database guy right because you've
actually built ETL pipelines we expect
you to be very wait
ETL developers are mostly data engineers
right so they manipulate data so then
we'll focus a lot on exploratory data
analysis SQL etc somebody is asking for
a non int and it really doesn't matter
to be honest with you maybe I'll tell
you I did this is my own personal
experience of interviewing with some of
the world's best universities far better
than IIT some of them right this is a
lesson that they learned in life ok if
you go to a top Institute in in the
world it could be Stanford MIT IAT
whatever you name it when you get into
the first role it gives you an advantage
right because that that brand value gets
you an interviewer top companies but in
the long run of a career right your
expertise matters I'll give an example I
have I have seen IAT ins and people from
in instead of science and some people
even from Stanford and Wharton it's of
the world's best universities who are
below people who came from no-name
universities I had a I had a senior
engineer in my team he came from a
university whose name I did not know of
okay but he has grown so fast because he
took steps because he did not have a top
brand institution he went he first
started off with a decent company if not
a great company right then he worked
there for a couple of years he learned
new things he built his skills and then
jumped to the next level company within
three four years he's already at Amazon
and Amazon he had that fire in the belly
he's super hard-working guy I'm not
saying he's super smart but he was super
hard working he still super hard-working
play he works as an architect at
Microsoft if I'm not wrong right he's
super hard-working his super
enthusiastic he takes a new work okay
that person within five to six years
after he graduated he grew faster than
people who graduated from IITs right so
in the long run of your career whether
you came say nobody will ask me today
which university I studied
people will ask me which company to do
work at what problems did you solve
right
so in the long run see in the short run
right after your graduation your
university matters because companies
don't have an alternative way to filter
but in the long run if you keep learning
again I think one of the biggest
problems we have in the current
education system is people stop learning
after their university education which
is incorrect what really matters is
lifelong education this is my own
personal experience it is this is
something that I've told one hundreds of
people that have mentored we tell people
that if you stop learning okay this is
this an advice that they give I think
also in our course if you stop learning
new techniques in machine learning
within one to two two years you're a
dinosaur okay to be honest that that's
the reality here right so if you don't
continuously learn whether she could be
a software engineer again I've seen I've
seen some people who are stuck in some
30 year old 40-year old technologies
they have not upgraded their skills
okay those people will be the first
people to suffer because they're not
upgrading to the new world right the
same is true with machine learning I
have seen some guys who are like who
have been in the machine learning data
science data analysis world for the last
thirty years they start of their careers
as statisticians but they have not
upgraded their skills to more modern
technologies and techniques those guys
are already dinosaurs now we don't even
interview them many times because they
don't have the most important skill of
upgrading themselves right so whether
you come from IIT or Stanford or a
no-name college it really doesn't matter
if you're not continuously learning if
you are continuously learning and if
you're come continuously striving for
excellence step-by-step then nope your
university doesn't matter where did
certain other let do is be tech from not
from an ideal it's not it's not even so
it is MIT it's not Massachusetts instead
of technology okay it's your money power
instead of technology that it is beat up
from and today is one of the most
celebrated CEOs in the world so your
university should not stop you please
understand that okay so back to the back
to the discussion I'm sorry I'm sorry
I'm sorry I got diverted a little so
there is also a team specific interview
that happen
okay so in the team specific interviews
what happens oftentimes is this again
your interviews could depend a lot on
the team that you're interviewing at for
example if you're interviewing at a team
that actually hires that actually solves
machine learning problems end to end
okay then there could be a four there
could be more focus on the end-to-end
pipeline everything from dead duckling
and my team was like that at Amazon
right so we were mostly solving problems
end to end okay we were mostly focused
on solving problems into end which is we
take a real-world problem solve it end
to end up to production ization and
maintenance of models okay
such teams interview also end to end the
loop what can you write code can you do
feature engineering can you can you
build models can you hyper parameter
tune
can you production play this models can
you deploy models can you track how the
model is working can you design KPS all
these are setting things that these
teams work on this is one type of team
these are some of the best teams to
worked in from my own personal
experience because you get to learn the
whole experience there are second time
of type of teams these are called pure
research teams there are some of those
teams at IBM Research someone again
these are the companies that I know of
those teams actually don't productionize
things end-to-end their job is mostly to
conduct fundamental foundational
research to write research papers and to
apply for patents okay such teams have a
completely different but such teams
focus a lot more on theory because their
expectation from you is to do
foundational research they actually
typically end up hiring PhDs in machine
learning or PhDs in mathematics
typically right because they want to
publish new and new research and get
patents for them that's the second type
of second type of the third type of
roles are there are teams which do more
data analysis than machine learning and
please don't look down on data analysis
I think data analysis is more important
than building okay I've seen some teams
like that they produce phenomenal
results actually lot of MBA folks end up
getting hired in those teams because
what those teams want to do
yes they're sitting on let's say a few
terabytes or maybe if you para bytes of
data right so what they'll do there is
they'll take all of this data they will
try to churn all of the data and give
business results right so that's very
very very important again so those are
those are another type of things there
are a fourth type of teams which which
primarily work on software engineering
of machine learning again that's a very
cool thing because there are very few
software engineers who know machine
learning so the very few software
engineers who can write optimal machine
learning code right so those teams don't
focus too much on the models on the
mathematics those teams focus more on
the software engineering aspects they
expect you to know advanced data
structure they expect you to know
distributed systems all of that there
are some things again so these are all
these are different types of teams and
some teams want a generalist some teams
want a specialist ok what is the
specialist specialist is somebody ok
sometimes might say I cannot hire if you
don't know spark so those teams are
looking for specialists ok some people
will say I only want people who know are
if you go to an interview - such a team
all you have to say I know Python I can
pick up our in a week what is the big
deal in this right I know the foundation
again typically product based companies
prefer generalists then specialists
right because the generalist has
foundational knowledge and everything
and they can actually pick up new topics
right a specialist knows the current
fancy technology again since some of our
students have requested us on this we
have covered lot of specialists related
stuff like for example how does Park
work how to trade model Sun SPARC how to
use ap ice right how does how does the
whole Big Data ecosystem work with
machine learning we have done a ton of
live live sessions in the recent as from
those topics because there are some
companies which ask for specialists
right these special skills like you have
to know are if you go to an interview
like that you say I already know - this
is my portfolio and you can say before
you go to the interview you learn the
basics of our write some code in our and
show that you said this is the basics
that I have learned the last one
weak technologies change foundations
don't change that often your
foundational mathematics does not change
everyday your technologies change every
year spark wasn't there when I was
studying at this park wasn't even
popular till last five years back
how do posit was it was it was at its
infancy when I started when I started
working in the industry so every day
there are new tech deep learning was
almost like but nobody heard of deep
learning when I was studying right so
things have changed enormously or at
least only a few people heard about deep
learning when I was studying to be
honest read just a very few research
people right so the most important
aspect here is when you are preparing
for interviews please make sure that you
understand the team that you're
interviewing for it's very good when you
set up the very first interview ask
about the expectation right I strongly
recommend that you ask about the
expectation itself cause then what are
you expecting out of a candidate and
that's perfectly all right
actually we asked whenever we refer any
efforts to bills we ask them what is the
expectation what are you looking for
okay are you looking for somebody who
has very strong software engineering
skills or are you looking for somebody
who has very good real-world
problem-solving skills in machine
learning what are you looking at again
there are some themes again I forgot to
mention this there there are some teams
which in the math room or in the machine
learning depth around will ask you to
prove things ok so how to tackle such
questions such questions you can tackle
by saying see again if you have gone
through our course we have covered many
of many of the proofs very intuitively
if you can reproduce the proof that's
great if you can't tell them it I don't
remember the proof but I can google it
up and explain you in 10 minutes ok but
again you have to be confident because
as an interviewer sometimes I've said ok
please open up your laptop please go
through the Wikipedia or whatever you
want and please explain me the proof and
again sometimes this happens ok I don't
like those proof based questions because
what are the testing they're not testing
your real-world problem-solving skills
they are just testing your skills to
memorize right so as Socrates very well
said I think I think it's raka Deseret
is total he said either you have to know
things or you have to know where to find
them ok Google is there right we are
living in the generation of Google so I
can find most things but I have to be
able to understand and interpret the
Merak
that is a super important skill or
somebody's asked a front-end web
developer I completely forgot to mention
this role so for a front-end web
developer if we expect you to be very
good with production ization of things
we expect you to know basic software
engineering basic algorithms basic stuff
we expect you to know right so you will
be treated mostly like a software
engineer but there might be some
additional focus for you on api's so I
might say how unprofessional production
is this using APs because if you're a
front-end web double web developer I
expect you to know about API is and how
how the whole client-server model works
all of that much more than this right
somebody's asking about architects if
you're an architect I expect if you're a
software in an architect I expect you to
be able to design machine learning
solutions end-to-end right again how to
build domain knowledge again that's
something that again what I strongly
recommend is don't try to go and build
domain knowledge in a topic that you're
not working in whichever topic you're
working in talk to your colleagues who
are more knowledgeable than you in that
domain try to understand the domain and
Google is your best friend suppose if
you're working in banking IT just Google
search how machine learning and data
science is used right how machine
learning and data science is used in in
in in banking read up a few case studies
talk to your colleagues who may have
worked on that right so that's very very
important so somebody is asking about
the mainframe developer again if you're
a mainframe developer we will treat you
again on mainframes what are you doing
are you doing mostly scripting work on
mainframes
are you or are you doing mostly db2 work
on mainframes if you're doing db2 work
then we'll treat you mostly as a machine
learning engine as a database guy and
expect you to know SQL and other things
well if you are mostly a scriptor who
write scripts then we'll treat you
mostly like a software in general all
right
so again somebody is asking about the
titles the titles are all around the
place guys I've had I've had three four
titles myself I had titles like a data
science engineer data scientist machine
learning scientists applied scientist a
scientists you name it all these at
business titles that I had in the ten
years of career research engineer but
what I was doing was the same thing
right
so the titles different companies choose
different titles for hundreds of reasons
to attract candidates all sorts of
things right so somebody's asking about
civil engineering very good so if you're
coming from a civil engineering
background I would like to I would
assume that you have very strong
mathematical foundations and you can
program if you can't program sorry it's
very very important that you can pro
whatever whether you come from physics
background or a statistics background
you have to be able to write basic
programs I'm not expecting some advanced
programs from you some basic programs I
am asking you and if I give you two
lists how do you combine them without
using any inbuilt functions can you
write a simple for loop right can you
write a simple simple fills conditions
can you write simple recursion right so
that's that that that's what we are
looking for and that's what we have also
covered as part of the course now for a
civil engineer I expect you to be fairly
good with linear algebra because you
guys use it more than most of us we
expect you to be fairly good with matrix
algebra also with differential calculus
especially the vector calculus right
because most of most of optimization
that we use in machine learning
most of optimization that we use in
machine learning is all is all of these
all vector vector is all is all your
videos videos of partial derivatives
extensively right so that's something
that we expect you to already know
fairly well to start with right so this
is something that I that I strongly
recommend again if you can learn machine
learning techniques and since you're
working as a research fellow if you can
apply some of these machine learning
techniques to civil engineering problems
that will be great somebody with
mechatronics background it's mostly an
electronics place mechanical engineering
so whatever I said earlier about
mechanical engineers and electronic
engineers same thing will work for you
so so somebody okay okay so people who
are from people somebodies from by
informatics background by informatics
has tons of applications in machine
learning please build a strong portfolio
of projects again somebody is asking
about how to build portfolio of projects
we have discussed this multiple times in
the previous life sessions
do very briefly enough right so the best
way is to pick up a problem in your
domain of expertise if you're working in
banking I did pick a problem from
banking if you're working in let's say
insurance IT companies pick up a problem
from insurance if you're working in a
healthcare pick up a healthcare problem
and you can find tons of open datasets
publicly available on sites like Google
calm or just Google search for it take
up a problem again we have a open case
study in inner course right I think one
of our case studies which is a which is
Amazon Apple recommendation it's
publicly available even for our non
registered students please go check out
those videos on how we solve the problem
end to end you're just first you have to
get the data from a site which is
publically available then ask yourself
what is a business problem I'm solving
right again try to try to tackle a
problem from multiple perspectives
design what is a business problem first
understand what is a business problem or
what is the real world problem you are
solving then go ahead and design the
matrix for it try to do all the data
pre-processing exploratory data analysis
all of that and after you do all of
exploratory data analysis and everything
very importantly start build don't don't
stick to one machine learning model try
to apply tons of machine learning models
because that way you can actually
showcase your skills in all of them
right
additionally try to try to also shed
some light on how to productionize these
models if we can productionize these
models using aps and things like that
that's great I'll give an example one of
our students recently okay somebody that
we meant to very closely a very very
good student so his case study was very
good a little it was the case study that
he did so we have a self-driving car
case study as part of her coursework
right but that is take that is using
data that someone else collected so this
gentleman who is our co I don't want to
name him publicly just for privacy so
this person actually used his car in
India and put a webcam there and
collected data from Indian roads okay
and he trained a deep learning model
that can predict how much you should
rotate your car driving wheel based on
Indian road conditions
and he wrote a detailed blog wrote a
brilliant github put up all of his code
so just by looking at his at his foot
for this just because of this one
project that he has done he has gotten
tens of calls tens of calls from
companies and companies I think he
recently joined as a very very senior in
a very very senior machine learning role
very recently he joined in a in a very
senior machine learning almost like a VP
role at a startup and he's doing
phenomenal work there and the company
loved him primarily because he took a
real-world problem and unlike others he
actually went to the market collected
real world data and solve the problem
end to end and put up his whole solution
he wrote a very detailed Tuesday I think
these are two blogs that he wrote or
maybe one blog I don't remember it so he
discussed everything in detail he also
showcase his github profile in lots of
domain right and he got tons of calls so
those are the types of projects that we
want our students to do try and do well
class projects don't take shortcuts most
importantly please don't put the
projects that we have asked we have left
some 15 case studies in the in the
course right please don't put them as
case studies that you have done you have
not done them please these are stuff
that you have been taught by us by
portfolio we want you to solve original
problem that you have solved on your own
with some mentorship from others okay
it's very very important you do it okay
so so okay again there tons of great
problems to solve to be honest with you
okay solving them end-to-end shows a
recruiter or throws a hiring manager
that it takes time for you they willing
to put in time you are willing to do the
dirty work to solve a problem and to end
right that's super duper important again
coming coming back to some of the
interview stuff for interviews when you
prepare for again I just wanted to
mention this very clearly when you're
preparing for machine learning specific
interviews right when you're preparing
specifically for machine learning based
machine learning depth around and
breakthrough it's very important that
you understand various aspects of an
algorithm
okay that's why we have been doing some
live case we have been doing some
two case studies recently on a player a
course based on each technique for
example I think last week we picked up
logistic regression we did it to our
live case study is not a case study
where did we need it to our live
interactive session on what type of
interview questions you can expect from
logistic regression again you have to
know a technique in-depth across all the
application for example if you tell me
again I've seen some list of some of the
candidates that I've interviewed I ask
them can you write what is the loss
function that logistic regression
minimizes I tell them think about it
write down carefully they can't write it
down if you can't if you can't tell me
what is the loss function that logistic
regression minimizes you don't have the
mathematical depth right you don't have
the mathematical rigor that is important
I'm not asking you to remember things by
heart all I'm asking is if you want to
derive it go to the whiteboard and
please feel free to derive it I would
love to see the derivation okay so when
you learn a technique the theory is as
important as practical when I ask some
people okay explain me about logistic
they say or there is a hyperplane that
separates all of that that's a very
simplistic
interpretation if you really know
machine learning you will say okay you
will give me multiple interpretations
multiple interpretations of this you
will say okay logistic regression from a
geometric perspective is just as the
simple hyperplane but from a loss
minimization perspective I can think of
it as minimizing the logistic loss and
this is what the logistic loss does and
why should we minimize the logistic loss
then we regularize it all of that stuff
but there is also a probabilistic
interpretation of the Gaussian naive
based based interpretation and we can
also arrived at logistic regression from
from from probability so if somebody
gives me these three viewpoints I'm much
more convinced that this person actually
knows what it is speaking what says if
somebody says okay there is this
hyperplane which separates these two
come on dude let's too simplistic that's
how you explain a ten-year-old kid when
you're in an interview I wanted to
showcase your skills to me your breadth
and depth of understanding similarly
when we ask you some of these boundary
questions right for example for example
if you ask you okay how do you how does
a logistic regression work when you have
outliers or should we use regular
when we have our players should you
pre-process the data you can only answer
some of these questions if you
understand the mathematics behind it
that's why in our course we did focus
quite considerably on the math as much
as on the practical aspects because
without math you don't get the inclusion
you're just remembering things by heart
again just like software engineers right
you can remember the syntax of a
programming language versus
understanding how the programming
language works internally that's the
difference right again there might be
some people who have not too much
experience maybe two years experience so
basic software skills nothing very fancy
and see a do a guy a - very experienced
person is neither a fresher not very
experienced person ok so I think there
is some problem with audio let me just
check I everything works alright for me
is there a problem with audio ok so I
just changed my hands ok so if you are a
two year experienced person you're
neither somebody with whom either you're
either a fresher not you're an
experienced person but I expect some
maturity from you we don't we don't want
to treat you just like a fresher okay
because because you have worked in the
industry for a couple of years we expect
that you've picked up a few concepts
like for example look at a software
engineer right somebody who works for
two years the expectation out of a
software engineer who works for two
years is different from a fresher from
somebody who has worked for two years
for example if you're a Java developer
if you've worked in industry for two
years I expect you to know the actual
clusters in Java
of JVM works have the real time engine
how the JRE works much better than a
fresher and fresher may not know all of
these things I also expect you to know a
little more about object-oriented
programming than a fresher if I should
not the theory part of it what is
inheritance all of that stuff but it
doesn't how it is used but since you
have spent two years in them
three I expect you to know some aspects
of it right so okay so again somebody is
asking about aerospace industry and
things like that
aerospace industry whatever I've
mentioned for help for mechanical
engineering it's very similar but
aerospace could have some specific
problems again as an aerospace engineer
I mean zooming that you're pretty good
with mathematics you are supposed to be
good in mathematics and and other areas
of and calculus all these little algebra
probability all of these things so I'm
assuming that you're pretty decent at
them so we'll focus more on that and of
course it will be great if you could do
a couple of real-world problems in
aerospace engineering or related fields
which require which require machine
learning right so that will be great
so again somebody's asking about salary
expectation salaries salaries range
widely to be honest with you
salaries range crazy okay and salaries
depend a lot on your skills okay so what
we typically see at applied a course
with the hundreds of students that we
have placed it is assuming a No Name
College let's start there assuming a No
Name College with the minimum packages
that we have seen is like five lakhs
okay for a machine-learning fresher but
typically we see in the six to eight
more and more okay even if you're decent
with this techniques you can expect six
to eight lakhs and if you're reasonably
good we have seen some freshers with no
name college who have gotten also we
have also gotten 1213 lakhs packages
because they learnt the concepts and
they're able to crack interviews better
right see so much of scarcity of good
machine learning engineers in the
industry that people are willing to pay
a premium so money is not a problem
right and see we have had people again
we have had some kind because we've been
we have had students for the last year
and a half or so we have had some
students who joined one company who also
interviewed another company got a much
better package right and the company was
forced to was forced to increase is paid
because he was a very good very good
employee so if you're good salaries are
not a problem at all again for
experienced folks you can comfortable
what we observed again from our own
students what we observe is typically a
40 to 50 percent hike in the salary for
experienced folks okay again what I'm
telling you are are are like media
numbers or are more commonly found
numbers there are exceptions I don't
want to promise you exceptions here
right there are people there are people
who have gotten 50 lakh packages there
are freshers who got 13 40 lakh packages
were no hood from no specific brand of
college there are people from top tier
colleges who got 22 25 lakhs right I
don't want to take exceptions and say
that that is the truth no I don't want
to I don't want to mislead you in the
direction what we typically see for
freshers is the six to eight lakh
bracket again of course you have to be
decent with programming you have to know
decent machine learning to get into that
six to eight lakh bracket for
experienced folks we typically see at
least a 40 percent increase but we have
seen folks who have transitioned from
testing QA rules to machine learning
rules because they really learned the
topics well they got like hundred
percent even polar person hikes in some
cases right so the spectrum is huge it
all depends on your skills right so
somebody is asking about somebody who
has a faculty background teaching
background so if you are coming from a
teaching background like me now right I
would expect you to explain machine
learning concepts value to me because as
a teacher that's a skill that I expect
you to have learnt as a teacher what is
your job your job is to explain your
students a concept very clearly and very
very beautifully right so my suggestion
if you're a teacher if you have been
teaching in some company some sorry if
you're teaching in some institution or
college right and if you are preparing
for machine learning roles I mean even
even if for for a road hiring at apply
records we've had some teachers who
approached we tell them please record a
50 minute video explaining the concept
of your choice if you can explain this
concept we would love to have you when
right so your clarity of explanation is
something that will that people will
look at so poor communication skills
that's certainly a problem that we have
seen some students face to be honest
with you because
if you can build all the models but you
can't explain what you have done okay
people will not believe you people
communication skills are so foundational
today unfortunately or fortunately I
have seen brilliant people who can't
explain what they're doing and we had to
reject them because how can he work in a
company how can he work in a team if he
can't commit
forget about language he can he can tell
me his concepts in Telugu Hindi Tamil I
don't care but if we can communicate
what he's saying I'm happy right
communicate clearly any language is
already most companies especially
product based companies they are not
like you have to speak very fluent
English not required if you can if you
can communicate your ideas clearly
verbally if you can clearly commit if
you can talk to your teammate and
explain them what is happening people
are happy with it
right so there is there is one more
question that I saw which I wanted to
answer physics background
yes that's what I'm honored answer so
actually I've had the opportunity to
interview some terrific physicists we
even had physicists in my team we had
some professors of physics in my team so
I was very fortunate one thing that I've
observed with physics guys is that
mathematics is terrific again in physics
there is this whole area called
statistical mechanics and quantum
mechanics right so again I'm not an
expert in those fields but one
observation that I had is people from
physics know mathematics and statistics
brilliantly so if you are coming from a
physics background I expect you to have
very very strong mathematics in
statistics knowledge okay far more than
a computer science engineering right so
if you are coming from physics
background you better be good at linear
algebra you better be good at
probability actually not just good very
good at it right you better be really
good at calculus the foundational topics
and you should able to write some code
I'm not asking you to be a great
software engineer but you should be able
to write some code right that that's
what I would expect again I think I've
mentioned about QA folks to machine
learning again as a QA person if you are
not writing code please build that skill
of writing code right the ability to
write code is mandate driven machine
learning if you can't write code sorry
it could be any programming language
because you can
our new programming languages later on
later right but if you are working in QA
and you don't have any programming
experience please build up your
programming knowledge first and then in
the QA round you will have to project
because you have not the lot of
programming you have to showcase your
skills on how you can end how you can
analyze the quality of a model so you
build a model I am assuming that Priya
folks also do some amount of testing
right so I assume that you can shed some
light on how to test these models and
how to avoid problems Oh
people with Hadoop and spark background
you guys have the best chance to be
honest with you in a way in a way again
you have your own disadvantages if you
have big data experience because lot of
companies want to leverage big data
right now you have an advantage but if
you come as a Hadoop developer I'll ask
you how do best questions thoroughly I
will ask you the internals of Hadoop
I'll also ask you how to implement
machine learning algorithms on Hadoop so
you better be prepared for it and
actually it's actually not a fun to
interview people with big data
background atne big data tool it could
be your MongoDB it could be any of you
have no SQL databases it could it could
be anything I we can again since I've
worked on these problems extensively
given any major no sequel database or a
Hadoop or a spark we can start asking
questions on you on how machine learning
can be leveraged along with the tool for
example if you tell me that I know
Lorena Kafka somebody was telling me
earlier Kafka and all these things right
I'll say how can you use how can you use
inverted indices machine learning
algorithms in production if you know if
you are using Kafka right then you have
to know about the inverted indices
everything that is there as part of
Kafka similarly if you know how you
don't know MapReduce internally how it
actually works right so that is that is
SuperDuper important ok so sounds good
somebody is asking about a full stack
developer to a machine learning engineer
I just explained it a while ago
somebody says amazing mathematics with
empty cup designs you are treated like a
computer science student but since you
have an MSC in mathematics you would
expect you to have far more
far more knowledge in mathematics also
somebody says I don't know Kafka you
don't have to know Kafka okay some I
answer that question because somebody
asks that earlier right
again Kafka and all these are tools ok
there is a huge difference between tools
and foundational knowledge right tools
come and go today you have a fancy new
database tomorrow it may not be there
things change very fast in the in the
tech world right so so tools are
especially product based companies will
get tools are less important than
foundational knowledge right so somebody
is asking about I just came across this
question somebody is asking I think I
just missed it ok somebody's saying
about chances of going abroad in machine
learning I think again there are very
few people at applied a course that we
have placed who have gone abroad through
us ok people who are in u.s. got placed
in u.s. right that's because of that's
because of the whole hiccup with all the
work visas and stuff like that but
thankfully some companies in Europe and
Japan have been hiring Indian students
or Indian candidates much more freely
enough we have some folks who got placed
in Rakuten in Japan some folks were
interviewing there right now so
depending have some folks who have
interviewed for four holes in South
Korea right again there are fewer roles
there and yet if it really really get
really really good to get some of those
interview calls to be honest with it
right so ya know somebody's talking
about manufacturing sector yes
predictive maintenance is a huge deal
actually I think we have a video on our
YouTube channel where we discussed how
machine learning and deep learning can
be used for predictive maintenance okay
that that's a huge area so somebody says
PG Diploma in statistical methods and
analytics from ISI I expect you to be
really really good with stats and if you
know statistics very well machine
learning is a cakewalk folks right so
somebody asked me to teach offline sorry
we don't teach offline right now because
that way we are limited to a very small
set of students while we want to serve
lot more students today right so our
courses are only online as of
because we want to reach and we want to
help as many students as we can so okay
so again somebody's asking about data
structures and algorithms see depending
on the company that you're interviewing
yet the importance of data structures
and algorithms comes into play again
depending on your background if you're
if you have studied undergraduate level
computer science or BCA MCA computer
science I expect you to know basic data
structures stack queue all these things
and they expect you to write basic
programs if you can't write that that
means you have not studied anything in a
BTech or you at the idea in the graduate
level but if you come from races civil
engineering I don't expect you to know
what is the stack and a queue because
you because you've never encountered
that right or I don't expect you to know
what is a graph but if you come from
computer science background and again if
you again depending on the company that
company and team that you're
interviewing at also that's what I
mentioned earlier right depends on your
background depends on the team depends
on the company that you're interviewing
it depends also on your experience if
you have if you're an experienced
software engineer we expect you to know
what is the stack and what is a queue if
you can't tell me come on sorry so
somebody's asking how to build portfolio
projects we've actually discussed that I
think in a video on our on our on our
youtube channel just google it in the
interest of time I'm skipping that
question but I think we have answered it
so there is actually a video on how to
do case studies or how to build
portfolio projects on our youtube
channel just search that right after
this right okay so how much data again
data storage let's assume okay let's
take a simple example right assume that
you are a computer science student okay
so if you are a computer science student
if you are interviewing at a services
company enforces TCS cognizant etc they
typically ask very basic questions okay
they typically ask questions like you
have a link you have a linkedlist how do
you invert a doubly-linked list this is
something that you have done in your bit
decorate very basic concept or they ask
you how do you implement a queue using
her using a using linked list or how do
you implement a queue using us how do
you implement a queue not using a stack
how do you implement a queue using using
arrays or given two sorted lists
how do you find the median of them these
are very simple questions right these
are very simple questions if you're a
comparison student if you're not a
computer science student they might ask
much simpler questions but if you go and
interview a top-notch product based
company like Amazon or Google again I'll
tell you something about Google a little
later if you if you interview a
top-notch companies and if you're a
computer science student they expect you
to be able to solve slightly harder
problems in data structures and
algorithms for example they'll ask you
how to implement a stack using a queue
how do you implement a stack using a
cube it's not a very hard question okay
it's a fairly easy question if you are a
computer science student and it's one of
the medium to easy questions that Amazon
or Facebook or Microsoft could ask right
so the question depends a lot on your
background and the company that you're
interviewing at that's very very
important okay so somebody is asking
about books for machine learning so my
suggestion for books for machine
learning would be there is pattern
recognition book by there is pattern
recognition by Christopher Bishop very
good book very standard textbook
mathematically very rigorous but the
problem with most textbooks is they
don't shed light on real-world problem
solving they teach you beautiful theory
but they don't shed much light on
practical real-world problem solving for
deep learning there is this book called
deep learning buddy and good fellow and
others very very good book they give you
a lot of mathematical rigor but
sometimes most textbooks assume that
you're a student who has all the
required background right you know what
linear algebraic operations are you know
you know all of this stuff very well but
the problem here is with these with
these good textbooks one of the problems
that you'll encounter
let me just charge up my phone just give
me a second I think I'm running a little
low on battery just give me a second
folks I just connect it to the battery
I just been here for just a second I
don't expect to do the lime on my phone
okay I've connected it so I'm hoping
will not have hiccups okay so where was
I so most of these textbooks gives you a
lot of good mathematical rigor there's
also elements of statistical learning by
tips irani and others terrific book but
they don't give you the intuition
inclusion is something that you have to
build on
and practical experience how do you take
all of these learnings and solve
real-world problems actually I
personally learned that in the industry
when I graduated from uni instead of
science I had tons of theory knowledge I
could prove theorems left and right but
I could not solve vehicle problems it's
something that I learned as part of my
work experience and as part of applied a
a course I try we trying to cover as
much of it through case studies so we
take real-world problem and solve end to
end so that you get an idea on what's
happening right so somebody says
computer vision versus okay somebody
says computer vision versus machine
learning I think there's not much of a
difference because machine learning
folks can learn computer vision very
quickly and computer vision folks learn
machine learning very quickly so instead
of saying computer vision or machine
learning just say machine learning with
computer science expertise right so how
to clear case study round or real-world
problem solving wrong the best solution
that I would recommend is actually to
solve more and more case studies to read
how others have solved problems that's
your best shot at it right it's very
very again you can just Google up if you
want to see how any company again most
major companies have blogs technical
blogs on how they solve problems or go
to cackle and see how some of these
winners have solved these problems that
if she can do that it shed a lot of
light on how real-world problems are
solved again goggle has the problem that
it doesn't solve real world problems end
to end it's more of a competition set up
while they're tall suppose if you want
to learn how to build a recommender
system using for YouTube just Google
search for it there tons of blogs that
you'll come across that people have
written which explain this right so okay
a good book I can pick for calculus
necessary for machine learning I don't
know see typical calculus books
typically cover everything in calculus
they cover everything in differentiation
limits integration differential
equations everything so I don't know if
there is a book that only covers the
necessary part in there is I don't know
if there is in if there is any book that
only covers the calculus required for
machinery I can think of
any book at the top of my head oh by the
way there are some there are some good
oral ebooks also that gives you hands-on
but one problem again there are problems
with oral ebooks also or really books
teach you about packages they teach you
like for example I thing they have a
book called introduction to machine
learning using scikit-learn it's a good
book but it doesn't go too deep into
mathematics it doesn't give you too much
mathematics intuition also that's a
problem so somebody says how do you get
head start in career in machine learning
for it felt clasp a student my
suggestion for you since your since
you've just finished your 12th class my
suggestion for you is to pick up
programming especially in a programming
language like Python become good at it
also become good at linear algebra and
calculus that you've learned in 11th and
12th class that way you will have a good
idea and if you see since this is your
vacation time just pick up I mean first
of all you have your foundations right
right so pick up pick up pick up
programming in Python that's what I
would strongly recommend also it refresh
your mathematics knowledge and just
start just start data structures and
algorithms also why not right so that
that's what I would recommend okay folks
I think we've almost run out of time
again somebody's asking about
mathematics courses from other online
websites like Coursera the problem with
mathematics courses is they teach
everything that is there for example you
take if you take calculus course right
at MIT or Stanford they teach everything
that is there of course if you have time
it's great to do it so suppose if you
take linear algebra course by by
Gilbert's trying at MIT he's one of the
best professors I know for linear
algebra
he teaches brilliantly well but to
finish his whole his whole lecture
series will take you three four months
and if you have time please go ahead and
do it but if you are in a hurry to learn
machine learning and learn only those
topics which are necessary then doing
course by course might take a lot of
time but if you are let's say a bit a
first year student or second year
student or somebody who just passed off
passed out of 12 right then then you
have a lot of time so then you should go
and look at Gilbert Strang videos on
linear algebra or somebody is really
reminding me that it was about to tell
something
Google yes so Google has a very
interesting culture whether you are
interviewing for machine learning round
or for any round even program manager
rounds or product manager drums google
has a programming interview ok Google
has a very deep programming culture
right so I have encountered cases where
people who interviewed at Google from a
friends and family for machine learning
rounds went through three four rounds of
programming just like a proper software
engineer along with three four rounds of
machine learning right so Google loved
one type of company which gives lot of
importance to programming English
programming data structures algorithms
right so that's that's very very
important so it depends on the company
so if I'm preparing for Google today in
addition to preparing all the machine
learning I will prepare thoroughly data
structures algorithms design principles
big and distributed systems
architectures all of them because I know
they're going to ask that right when
other companies may not ask that right
so again so that's why your preparation
has to be very tuned to the company a
lot right so yeah that that's all I had
and thanks for joining in sorry for the
couple of hiccups we had with respect to
the power cut and my apologies for that
thankfully we were back on the mobile
phone probably next time I should just
do it on this mobile phone the video
quality is good I'm hoping the audio is
also pretty decent here somebody
somebody okay somebody again before we
before we take leave somebody start
talking about mobile app developer look
at this if you're a mobile app developer
one thing that I'll ask you again if you
have learned machine learning will treat
you mostly like a software engineer
itself but in addition to that one very
interesting question that I used to ask
these folks is how do you take a machine
learning model like a random forest and
implement it optimally on iOS or on
Android ok very important question
because look at this because on a
smartphone I have battery constraint
which I don't have it with desktops and
laptops so you have so in addition to
all these constraints you also have to
design algorithms that will not consume
that lot cuz you
lots of battery right so so that's
that's very very important right so okay
that's all that's all I had and in the
interest of time since it's a Sunday
people who are people might want to sign
off from here and thanks a lot for
joining in folks thanks thanks again and
sorry for the hiccups because of the
power cut we'll try and do more live
sessions like this in the interest of
everybody but these live sessions will
be more in general right so any
questions that I could not answer here
because of time constraints please feel
free to shoot an email to us we'll try
and respond back to you as soon as
possible just email us at team at apply
da codes calm and we'll try and do our
best to answer as many questions as we
can okay folks thanks a lot have a good
weekend and have a good time bye bye
