hey folks I guess we our life please can
you confirm in the live session window
if you can hear me so that whether it's
good so that I know that everything is
working as expected
can you folks please confirm on the chat
window if you can hear me and see my
screen being shared all right so those
are the two important checks that we
need to do before we dive in hey good
evening folks thanks for joining in I'm
just waiting for the session itself to
start objected in Python for AI yes
that's the session yeah
so yeah I guess I guess we are life yeah
so can you please confirm if you can
hear me and see my screen being shared
so that so that I know that it's working
in the first place
so am i audible is it clear that I'm
audible yeah sounds good sounds good
okay thank you folks thank you for
joining in and let's wait for a couple
of minutes we are a few minutes early
I'll start the session at 602 or 603
p.m. right so that everybody joins the
session everybody who is planning to
join can join the session and we're just
going to continue the same way we have
done the previous live sessions this
live session is all about object
programming I'll take a ipython notebook
and go through various examples and
let's try to make it a little
interactive also sounds good so
everything is fine cool
so somebody asks I'll take a few
questions whatever I can answer I'll try
to answer which programming language is
best to crack placement so I'm assuming
this is for software engineering roles
not for machine learning roles for
machine learning roles people mostly
prefer Python there are some companies
that use are also but Python is the most
preferred if you're talking about
placements for software engineering
roles I mean you can use any modern
programming language C++ Java Python
doesn't matter because most product
based companies are fairly neutral to
what programming language you use
because they know that the programming
language that you know today may not be
the one that will be nice event right
but a small catch there is there are a
few finance companies which specifically
ask for C++ based programming because
most financial companies like like
trading companies who do high-frequency
trading
they typically write most of their code
in C++ or C alright so they might have a
language preference but most other
Prague based companies they're neutral
like in most of the interviews that I
have been part of as an interviewer or
an interviewee they into I mean in most
product based companies there was no
specific requirement that I should be
good at Java or C++ or Python because if
you're conceptual knowledge is good you
can pick up a language in a very little
time of course you do not become an
expert in a language but you can pick up
a language and start writing code in
just a week or two right so it really
doesn't matter as
it's a modern programming language my
personal preference is Python or some
people also like Java but my personal
preference is Python because Python has
a lot of very good inbuilt data
structures lot of nice libraries that we
can use and most importantly Python also
the code is much more concise much more
easy to write then C++ or Java so I
personally prefer Python okay so so
somebody is asking is C++ necessary for
data science C++ is used in a few
instances but only in a very few
instances Python is the most preferred
language today for most of data science
and machine learning there is C or C++
being used only when you require like I
have used C C++ when we had to write
some extremely low-level code for speed
right we had to build a system wherein
we were getting where in we need to
evaluate a machine learning model in
just under a millisecond right so when
you have such latency requirements when
you have to write write code that works
extremely fast there are a few instances
where C or C++ is used but mostly it is
Python and the preference for Python is
because of availability of great
libraries for data science statistics
machine learning deep learning plotting
you name it Python has some of the most
extensive libraries and hence even for
our courses we prefer Python over others
so ok so somebody is asking how will the
job market be after the coronavirus
again I think I mentioned this in one of
the previous live sessions also we don't
know yet all right so the International
Monetary Fund says that most likely most
large economies of the world are already
in a recession but where to wait for
this scenario to clear again these are
not in our hands these are large
macroeconomic these are large
macroeconomic effects that you and I do
not control so my suggestion to anyone I
mean this is something that we have
suggested to all of our students this is
something that I've suggested to all of
my employees to all of my colleagues and
friends that this
is a I mean if there is a precision we
don't know whether they relation because
there is a technical definition of what
recession is which is basically two
quarters of GDP fall in a macroeconomic
framework again even if there is a
recession we don't know how long the
recession will stay it might so happen
that we have a vaccine for coronavirus
or we have a good medication or a drug
and things become normal very quickly so
we actually don't know so in times of
uncertainty like this
my suggestion is since you can't impact
this stay safe that's extremely
important your job is to ensure that
you're safe and build on your skills
become a better programmer if you want
to become a software engineer again even
if there is a recession there are always
jobs for extremely skinny people you
might say how do you know it because I
graduated at the peak of recession I
graduated in 2009 May which is literally
the peak of the last major great
recession it's called the great
recession now right so so I've been
through one recession in my professional
career and I know firsthand that people
who have skills will survive this people
who don't have skills will fall behind
so since you can't control the
macroeconomic effects but you can
control what is in your hand what is in
your hand is your time of course your
safety most importantly number one
number two is your skills focus on your
skills even if there is a recession as
soon even in a recession there are jobs
they're just fewer of them so if you are
better with your skills either in
programming machine learning data
science you will still have jobs like
one of her students right even during
this lockdown period his his interview
with Amazon just started before before
the lockdown and thankfully even during
the lockdown all of his interviews got
through he got a confirmation that he is
hired
he's most likely get an offer letter
right so top companies are always
looking for highly skilled people so if
you have skills don't worry about it
and if you don't have skills you should
focus more on building your skills than
panicking because if you panic nothing
is going to happen you can't change the
big macroeconomic or the large
health care systems you can do it your
job is to stay safe and build on your
skills if you have skills try to improve
them if you don't have skills gain those
skills that's what I would personally
recommend right so again I've seen some
of our I've seen this query multiple
times instead of instead of panicking
what what do you get by panicking you'll
more become more depressive that's it so
don't panic build on your skills again
even in the last recession people who
focused on building their skills who
improve their skills were the ones who
got the jobs even in a recession and
after the recession as soon as the
recession became as soon as the
recession as soon as the world got over
the recession those are the people who
got the jumps first right so it's as
simple as that
okay sounds good oh we are already six
oh five so let me let me let me get into
the live session itself okay
so again I'll try to take more answers
later on so somebody is asking how is
this session useful in ml so I'll tell
that I'll tell that wait please wait so
what we have been doing in the last few
life sessions is we have been working on
improving the programming skills our
core focus was how do you how do we
improve programming skills of folks
again what we have seen is this is where
a lot of people lack this is fundamental
if you know all of machine learning data
science all the mathematics but if you
can't write reasonable code nobody is
going to give you a job let's be clear
about it right programming skills is a
mandatory thing so the purpose of this
is to cover programming skills in the
context of machine learning in the air
okay so again please understand that we
are going to build on top of the
previous live session so I will not be
repeating the concepts that we have
covered in the previous live sessions I
will be taking a few examples from the
previous live sessions and continuing
right so let me give you an overview
again I'm not assuming that you guys
know object read programming in any
language
I'll not assume that and I will assume
that you don't know much of object word
programming in Python C++ or Java and
I'll try to explain these concepts from
very basics right and other concepts I
already assumed that you knew some
you know some and we were solving
problems in this live session I will try
to explain the concepts of object or
programming with simple examples some
time examples some real-world examples
okay but I'd build on top of the
previous live session examples okay
first and foremost broadly speaking you
have procedural languages like C
programming and you have aa digital
programming languages like C++ Java and
Python right most engineering students
learn C I think it is mostly computer
science students who learn C++ Java and
Python
there are also some electronic students
also who learn some of these object or
programming languages in some
universities so first and foremost
something that you'll remember is you
can build large and complex software in
procedural languages you don't require
object programming to build complex
large software for example take the
whole Linux kernel which is basically
the heart of the Linux operating system
right similarly take take the heart of
Macintosh your Mac OS they are all they
both are built in C C is not an optional
programming language remember right so
large complex software can be built in C
programming language or procedural
programming languages now you might say
then why the heck are we learning
writing these alternative programming
come into existence because again when
people were designing software using C
they realized that as the complexity of
the software increased it became much
harder to build systems using C
programming language so they so objected
programming is basically a concept in
programming language design okay so this
is basically a way of writing code and
object programming came into existence
because it is easier to design object
road programming code especially for
large software and remember over the
period of time modern software you have
hundreds of contributors hundreds of
software engineers working together and
things like that
and it's also much more easy to reuse
components of course you can reuse some
stuff in C also because functions is a
way to reuse write functions if a write
a function I can reuse that
functionality but objective programming
is much more easy from a design
standpoint and it makes the life easier
to build large and complex
but please remember that you can build
large and complex software even and see
again Linux kernel itself has hundreds
of developers who contribute source code
it is possible objected programming is
just just makes your life easier okay
that's the most important tenet right
that's why if you look at any major
through any major module for example we
use numpy right we use numpy numpy is a
very good library of functionality for
numerical analysis in python we have
seen this in the previous live sessions
so numpy is built using object or
programming so most of the libraries and
modules in python most of most of these
most of these special-purpose libraries
a clump by sight by matplotlib again
matplotlib is a very popular library for
for plotting right so similarly you have
again there is there is tensor flow
right tensor flow is used for deep
learning so many of these large complex
pieces of software are often written
using object or programming so that it's
easier to maintain easier to design
easier to reuse components and maintain
this large complex software now as a
machine learning engineer why should you
learn it that's the next question first
let's see as a software development
engineer if you're looking for software
development engineering roles you should
know objective programming in good
detail because as a software engineer
you will mostly be implementing software
or you will be implementing a small sub
module right you will be implementing a
small sub module or a class so if you're
a software development engineer you
should know object programming in quite
some detail right because you will be
working in large teams where each team
member might be building a class or a
set of classes so it's extremely
important if you're a software
development engineer in modern companies
now for machine learning and data
science roles again I have used object
or programming but not as much as
software development engineers I've
reviewed lots of code from other
software development engineers in my own
career but as a machine learning and
data science being in machine learning
data science and research
trolls the application is simple you
should know the basics of object
programming so that you can use various
other modules and libraries that people
have built for example I just showed you
an example right as a machine learning
engineer or even as a data scientist or
a machine learning scientist you use
numpy Sai PI tensorflow matplotlib
scikit-learn right so you you use
scikit-learn
XG boost these all are extremely popular
libraries that are used every day by
machine learning and data science folks
their use day in and day out now when
you are using let's say numpy if you
don't know what a class is or what an
object is or how inheritance works you
will be limited by how well you can use
this programming language right so
mostly for machine learning and data
science rolls for people who are not
writing production code right you should
know the basics so as to use other
modules and to extend these modules when
needed for your use cases as a machine
learning or a data scientist if you are
writing production quality code by
working with software development
engineers you need to also know how
classes how do you write a class how
inheritance works some of those details
so even from an interview standpoint if
you interview a top product based
companies especially for software
development engineer roles there is some
focus on objective programming for
machine learning in data science roles
there is less focus on it there is focus
on programming in general for example we
looked at recursion we looked at some
simple programming exercises in the last
six live sessions right there is that
focus but not so much on object or
design or object onto object on it
programming again the true power of
object-oriented programming can I mean
you can do it of course you can learn
the theory you can learn a few examples
etc but the true appreciation like I
learnt or general programming when I
first learned C++ I didn't call in
school days right then I learned a
little bit of Java
I learned Python I learned c-sharp I
learned a bunch of programming languages
all of them I knew the concepts of
object or programming but I only
appreciated why these concepts exist and
how they are used when I learnt about
about objected design right and you
learn object
design
when you design large pieces of software
for example imagine if you're designing
a library for plotting like matplotlib
right so suppose imagine this is a very
popular library for plotting in Python
right so if you want to design
matplotlib how do you define each of
your classes
what are your classes how do you design
what inheritance how do you design the
whole classes and how do you design the
whole architecture of this library
ok that's where you will really
appreciate it again I cannot cover
orbital design because it's a it's a
full fledged topic in itself it's a
topic mostly in software engineering
I'll not be covering it but my focus in
today's live session will be basics of
oriented programming for machine
learning and data science rules
so if you're a song if you are looking
for data software development roles some
of what I am discussing is useful but
you should build on top of it right so
the prerequisites that we have our
previous live sessions in this series
because I will be using examples from
that cool first and foremost let's make
sure what is our Linux our sir what is
our Python version Python three point
seven point three I just want to make
sure so that we are not writing code in
Python three we're writing coding PI so
we are not writing code in Python 2.7 we
are writing code in Python three just
wanted to make sure now in the previous
live session we wrote a URL shortener we
wrote we implemented a we implemented
something called as URL shortener if you
recall using dictionaries and other
stuff we have discussed that in the
previous live session and lots of detail
okay we actually implemented it using
basic inbuilt data structures that are
available in Python now the same code so
what we implemented in the previous live
session is an on object rooted
programming also called as procedural
implementation again I am just I've just
pasted what we have implemented
previously right imagine I mean I just
go through it quickly for those who may
not have attended the previous session
I'm creating a dictionary here to store
all the long URLs and short URLs again
I've shown an example right tinyurl
example again this is a very real-world
problem right and we solved it using
dictionaries and simple code so on this
I have two functions which is get short
URL which given a long URL gives me a
short URL and get long URL which takes a
short URL and gives me the long URL back
and we just implemented it use
dictionaries and I agree and I argued
why we use a dictionary here why not the
list why not a set what is the
appropriate data structure here and
everything now in the previous life
session I said look at this logically if
you think about it what do you have you
have B which is a dictionary right and
you have two functions you have two
functions get shot URL right so get shot
URL and get long URL right so these are
again we actually built a simple URL
shortening system right so if you if you
realize this get shot URL is working on
this data structure this get longer also
uses this data structure so I said since
all three of them are interrelated why
don't we put all three of them into a
logical group or a logical entity I said
that's what is the foundation of classes
right so a Class A Class basically is a
logical grouping again I'm telling it in
a very high level right so logically
since I have a variable here right and I
have two functions which are operating
on this variable why don't a group all
of them into a logical entity that
logical entity is called a class right
so let's actually see the code on how to
convert this procedural code into a
class okay first and foremost before we
go into it remember this analogy that I
mentioned in the previous life sessions
also if you have a data type right a
data type has a variable right if you
have a data type or or or or a data
structure right for example imagine if I
have I equals to 10 now what is this I
is a variable right I is a variable here
what is the data type of I here I is an
integer right that's what it means so I
have an integer which is the data type
and my variable itself is I right now
just like a data type exists a class is
same as the data type if you think
logically
instead of saying class variable we say
object right so the analogy is important
just like a class look at this just like
at a data type has a variable a class
has an object so in some textbooks you
might see that an object is an
instantiation of a class
what does instantiation basically means
it just
fancy English term what it means is
imagine if I have an int int is my
datatype I'm creating a variable for int
so when I do this what happens in my
main memory or RAM right in my RAM there
is memory location there is there is
memory location allocated it wherein
wherein I can where and I can store this
value of 10 here and I can refer to this
memory location using I right so
effectively what's happening is a
variable
they call it instantiation because when
you create a variable there is some
memory being created in your RAM or main
memory where you can store this real
where you can store this value that's
why it's called instantiation in some
textbooks it's just a fancy English word
so important thing that you notice here
just like data for a given data type you
have variables in a datatype
you can create which creates locations
in memory or class has an object I
mentioned this in the previous life
sessions also just a quick recap now
let's build a class right called URL
short short called short URL again here
there are many concepts of objected
programming I will go step-by-step
right now our view is this a class is
basically a group of variables right
again variables are called as attributes
in object or programming in Python right
different programming languages use
different terms Python calls these as
attributes instead of calling functions
they call them methods right but it
means the same thing right into a single
logical unit okay so that that's the
goal here
let me just there are a couple of typos
here right so a class is basically
grouping all the variables or attributes
and the functions or methods into a
single logical unit so what I do here is
this suppose if I want to create a class
called short URL the way I do it is this
I say class again this is a keyword in
python class short URL semicolon
everything that is there with this
indentation anything which is there with
this indentation of is within the class
cool let me just explain some simple
syntax again if you already know
objected programming in Python you may
not benefit much from this because I'm
starting from the very
six here okay so first and foremost okay
there is this I'm I'm again within this
within this I'm creating a function
called underscore underscore init
underscore underscore now this is this
is called as a constructor right I'll
tell you how a constructor works just
remember that the function which has
underscore underscore in it in it stands
for initialization in it - sorry
underscore underscore this function in
any class is called a constructor it's a
special-purpose function I'll explain
you how a constructor works when I
create an object just bear with me write
again a constructor is not must but it
is always a good programming practice to
have a constructor now what is the
purpose of a constructor
look at this in my short URL effectively
I want to have a dictionary D I want to
have a dictionary D and I want to have
two functions right get short URL get
long URL these are the two functions
that I want or two methods that I want
again let me start using this
terminology these are the two methods or
functions this is the variable or the
attribute that I want now with the
purpose of a constructor is I want to
initialize all attributes that I want in
this class in this class what attribute
do I want I want a dictionary D so what
do I do here again any function that you
have the first parameter is called as
self I tell you what is self in a little
while just bear with me just bear with
me because I have to connect this
concept to a concept of an object so
that everything fits together okay I'll
tell you what is a constructor when we
create an object self also I will
explain you when we construct an object
and how it works internally right so
just remember that self base okay so
we'll go there just bear with me okay
I'll tell you what is self what is
constructed in a few minutes just bear
with me all that I'm saying so self
basically means okay let me see okay
suppose this is my constructor okay so
okay okay let's go here okay let me also
tell you the creation of an object okay
so if you think broadly let's let's look
at the high level then we'll go step by
step so this function is called as a
constructor this is my get shot URL this
is my function get shot URL I've changed
it slightly not much
right then I have the get long URL if
you notice my what do I want in my short
URL I want a dictionary D I want the get
short URL I want and I want to get long
URL these are the three parts that I
want but I've modified them slightly
that I've modified them slightly now if
I want to create suppose for example I
created this class I told you just a
while ago that a class has an object
just like the way a data type has a
variable now if I want to create a
variable of this class look at this as
soon as I define a class like this
nothing is created in memory as soon as
I create it as long as there are no
syntax errors it doesn't give you any
error it's just it's we are just
defining what this class should look
like it has not created anything in
memory now look at this the moment I do
this I say s equals to short URL look at
this so the moment I say this this is
the syntax s equals to short URL now
what is happening I am saying I want to
create a variable okay or object instead
of calling it a variable we should call
it object so s is a variable of short
URL data type also short URL class right
so short URL is the name of the class
right short URL is the name of the class
so what do I do enough by by using this
syntax by using this syntax where it say
s equals to short URL look at this I am
calling short URL as a function I am
calling this function notation here I'm
using as if I am calling a function
called short URL now as soon as this
happens what happens is in memory okay
it creates in your RAM it creates some
space which I can access using this
variable name s and what is created in
this memory look at this the moment I
run this what is this I'm creating an
object or I'm instantiating an object of
class short URL the moment I call this
what happens is this will go and run the
constructor right so this will go and
run the constructor what is constructor
here constructor is always defined as
underscore underscore underscore
underscore now what happens here
immediately look at this I said s equals
to short URL now there is no function
called short URL there is a class called
short URL so what is this function that
is going to execute it is going to
secure the constructor okay it is going
to go and execute the constructor now
when it is executing the constructor the
self here self basically means self is a
reference to the object that is calling
it here self basically means s because I
am calling this for the variable or the
object s look at this I am calling this
I'm calling this constructor if you
notice what is happening here
I'm so I'm I've created a variable or an
object called s and I am calling this
constructor when I call this constructor
or any function when I call any function
here as soon as I call as soon as I use
this syntax the constructor is called
the memory is allocated right when the
constructor is called the self here the
self here basically means the object
that has called this function right so
because the the object or the variable
name can change once I can say s equals
to short URL other time I can say s 1
equals to short URL so we don't know
what is the object name or the variable
name right so here self basically refers
to whatever is the name of the object
that is calling the constructor now in
the constructor what happened look at
this in the constructor I am saying self
dot B equals to dictionary so this
function C remember I said s equals to
short URL I just executed this line
right the moment I executed this line
there is in in my main memory or Ram
right there is some memory created to
store all of these to store all the data
that is assigned here and I can
reference this using s now what does it
say in the constructed says self for
this object self basically means for
this object for this object create a
dictionary called D and the dictionary
will be empty very simple the dictionary
is empty right so what happens is within
this within this memory location there
is a dictionary that is created now
there is a dictionary that is created
very interestingly right so that that's
what has happened till now right so I
hope this is clear right so here is an
object here is a constructor the moment
you execute the constructor so the
moment you create you create an object
using this syntax the constructor is
called
and whatever is there in the constructor
is executed
cool now actually if you think about it
there is a constructor that's half
that's running here also dict is also a
class if you notice actually look at the
syntax right how do you create a
dictionary in Python one way of creating
it is this we can say dicta this creates
an empty dictionary now what you are
calling here is the dick is actually a
class dicta is actually a class in
Python and you are calling the this
class's constructor but I just wanted to
connect them becoming those two dots for
you now once we had done that we are not
yet done we're still getting started if
I want to know the datatype of s we can
we know how to do it right you just
print type s then what does it say it
says s is of type class and what class
is it underscore underscore main
underscore underscore short URL I know
it is short URL but what is this
underscore underscore main underscore
underscore what does this mean
see look at this the datatype of S is I
know that it is a class and the class
name is short URL but what does this
underscore underscore main underscore
underscore mean what does this mean
right so again I'll just explain that
quickly so this whole script this whole
script by default in Python any script
you write which is not within within and
another within an another module the
underscore underscore main underscore
underscore is the main module in which
this program is actually being executed
right so that's why you always seen this
again imagine if short URL was defined
in a completely different module again
if you remember import we import modules
using import write in Python suppose if
I have import map suppose imagine if I
have a class within math okay so imagine
if I have a class within math okay let's
look at this look at like this supposing
if I import numpy okay instead of math
numpy is better because we've seen lot
of examples so let's add you my input
numpy is MP right
suppose if I create a variable a equals
to MP dot and B array right suppose I
create this now we faith ask for the
data type of a it will say that
type of a is numpy dot andy array we
have already seen this in the previous
live sessions why does it say this
because NB array is the name of the
class and numpy is the module in which
this ND array exists because we imported
this module right so the default module
right from which this whole code or
script is invoked is called as a main
module if you don't have this in any
other module the default module is
underscore underscore main underscore
underscore very simple again if you want
to understand more about modules I
assume that some of you know modules
will try to cover modules also in the
next live session but if you want to
understand more about modules here is a
very very simple explanation of modules
again if I have to put it very simply a
module in Python is same as the code
library it's basically a file a module
is a file in which you can have a bunch
of variables right you can have a bunch
of functions and a bunch of classes
right it's basic X so when you say
import mat there is actually a math dot
PI somewhere right which has all the
functions variables constants classes
that are part of math word pi that you
are using right so for example let's
look at this I'll show you that it's
actually it's actually very simple to
see math dot Pi in Python if you just
google search for it okay where are
these okay so just go here okay does it
say math has okay so look at this math
has within the module called math there
is a function called seal there's a
function called copy sign there is a
function called F absolute factorial
blah blah blah blah blah blah but you
can also find math dot if you go to
github right okay look at this Python
skeletons so here is an example of math
not pi okay I hope okay I don't think is
this the actual official implementation
looks like it has hundreds of lines of
code again you can look up the official
implementation of math not pi right so
you have all these functions C F abs
flow all these functions which are part
of the module math right so again that's
what modules are module is nothing but
it's basically a Python file which has a
bunch of variables functions and classes
defined you can think of it like a code
library that's why I often use the term
library and module interchangeably okay
sounds good
very good so not now what do I have look
at this so I created a variable or or an
object called s of type short URL class
cool very good so the moment I call this
look at this the moment I created this
variable the constructor got executed
and now I have a dictionary
okay the dictionary is empty obviously
now if I want to call URL if I want to
let's say you shorten a URL look it is
very importantly in the implementation
of any function which is there within
the class the first parameter is always
self look at this in my get short URL
right the first parameter is self in my
get long URL the first parameter is
always self on the other hand when we
implemented a procedural based
implementation there is no self because
there is no concept of object here in a
procedural implementation you no object
hundred implementation because this gets
shot URL and get long URL are within
this class right every method or
function within the class takes self or
self basically is nothing but it's a
reference to the object that is calling
this that's all it is
right so simple nothing fancy here okay
so now let's see how how get short URL
works so for example okay so we have we
have created this variable or object
called s we know it's data type if I
just say s dot short URL what happens
look at this I just said s dot short URL
and I got an error what error does it
say it says short URL object does not
have attribute short URL it says I could
not find short URL or with smaller s in
the short URL object why is it so think
about it it's a very common error
because the function name is called get
short URL not short URL right so very
often a very common mistake is people
create an object and they don't look at
what func
they're inside and it starts giving
these errors so whenever you get an
error like this go to the function does
go to the class reference or the
documentation as we have done in
previous life sessions just go to the
documentation and say what is the
function that is actually there here
right for example if you look at numpy
right so numpy and E are a reference
this Google search for it
okay numpy dot nd array so if you go to
the reference here it says okay the
class is the numpy is the is the module
and the array is the name of the class
and the structure that it is showing
here is the constructor the constructor
takes a shape the constructor takes a D
type all these variables now look at all
the parameters that are there these are
the parameters to the constructor shape
D type buffer offset etc right again
look at all the attributes that are
there these are all the variables that
are there look at all the attributes
that are there all the methods that are
there now if you get any error like this
if you get any error like this where it
says where it says the attribute did not
exist or the method does not exist just
go to the documentation and see if that
method actually exists these are all the
methods that are there in NP in nd array
right so these are all the attributes or
variables these are all the functions or
methods I'm using the Python terminology
cool now we know that it should be
actually get short URL so how do I call
this I say s not get short URL again I
need this object look at this I need
this object to call this function so I
say s not get short URL applied a
a'course okay it would print this so
this is my short URL again I say s not
get short URL gained on a player-coach
again data applied quotes actually sorry
gained on a applied course that's
anymore for webpage I'm sorry so you
just type in this you get a short URL
again it works right cool now again if I
want to use the get long URL I use the
object dot this is the syntax again we
are talking with respect to s this s is
the the name of my object s is the name
of my object so if I want to use get
shot if I want to call get
short URL or get long URL the most
popular way is to actually use the
object dot syntax right so I got I got
my long URL short URL now if I just give
my short URL my get long URL will get me
the actual address now if I want to
print look at this so what is happening
here I have in my RAM there is some
memory allocated which I can access
using variable name s right which is
nothing but my object and when I when I
instantiate this object or when I
created this object there was a
dictionary D that was created there was
a dictionary D that was created if I
want to access this can access it yes
you can just say print s dot D look at
this see look at this the s not get shot
URL and s not get long URL right when I
say s not get short URL let's see what
happens I will go to go through the code
for you again right now when I say s not
D it will print whatever is there in the
dictionary corresponding to s right so
let's look at it so the moment I said s
not get shot URL how does this work
how does the implementation change now
we know the implementation of the dish
of the constructor it is basically
creating a dictionary next when I say
get shot URL look at this the get shot
URL I am saying s dot get shot URL right
so the first parameter is always the
object that is calling this function
next if you look at this this code this
code this code all of them are just same
as what we have discussed in the last
session everything is the same the only
change that I have made here is I have
said self dot B here that's the only
change except that this whole code is
exactly the same code as we have
discussed in the previous live session
Here I am saying this so why am i saying
self dot d here again to be very precise
what I am saying here is if I call s dot
get short URL look at this I called s
not get short URL with some with some
long URL here so what it means what it
does know is so in my in my RAM right I
have my s which is pointing to this
whole memory location in which there is
a dictionary D the moment I do this look
at this when I say self dot d self
basically means this
object which is using which we are
calling this function so self you can
think of it as the object that is
calling it s so self dot D is nothing
but s dot d the intuitive way of
thinking about it so what it's doing is
it is adding this short URL and long URL
as keys and values in your dictionary D
corresponding to your variable s right
or your object s that's important now
they'll get long here also I've changed
it very slightly look at this the only
change that I have done in the get get
long URL s again the first parameter is
always self now when I say this what
happens this is this okay sorry
okay so when I say this what I always
pass the first parameter is self again
short URL now the only change that I
have done here is I've changed this line
and this line instead of just saying D I
am saying self dot D because if I say if
I call s not get long URL if I call s
dot long URL with a short URL here right
I want it to go and look for the
dictionary which is there in s and
because I'm calling the get long URL
using this variable or object s self
basically means that s so this will
basically be translated into S naught D
this will also be translated into s dot
d that's a logical way of thinking about
it right that's the only change rest
everything the logic is exactly the same
now you might say right have I had been
doing all of this I'll come to the
please bear with me just please bear
with me I'll explain you why we are
doing all this complex stuff I tell you
from a software engineering perspective
in a few minutes first let us understand
the basics okay cool so I got all of
this okay so now I can say my s dot d is
this right I can access this s dot B and
I can add more things here look at this
my s dot B is nothing but a dictionary I
can add this as the key and I can add
this as the value if I want so I can
keep adding whatever I want into the
dictionary again remember that this
dictionary this dictionary D is there in
the memory location that s has created
that is created for object s but I can
access this dictionary and use it like a
regular dictionary whatever way I want
to use cool where
simple now this is how you create this
is how you take procedural code now you
might say why are we doing all of this
please bear with me just ten more
minutes I'll explain you that let me
explain a few cases so what have we done
we have taken a procedural program where
you had a dictionary you had two methods
or functions which is get short URL get
long URL we have done all of this cool
we have translated this into a class
right with a constructor we understood
what is self we understood what is class
that this is that we have an attribute B
we have these methods and all of that
right so all that is cool now let's
let's go ahead and learn a couple of
other things now right so for example
imagine again there are lot of details
and boundary cases imagine if I want to
create an empty class ok this is this
allowed in in Python yes it's allowed I
can create a class again my class name
here is empty class I am creating a
class called empty class again it is
just always a good programming practice
to always name your classes using camel
case camel case basically means it
should be capital every words first
letter should be capital that's a good
programming habit right so that's of
that that's a good programming habit in
general right so again this is basically
good programming practices so imagine if
I if I just execute this okay so what
did I create here I created a class
called empty class if I don't want to
write anything inside this what can I do
I can just use this keyword called pass
when I say pass what it means is there
is nothing here the way you write a
class is you write class the class name
that you want column everything that you
want within this class of course with
indentation if you don't want to have
anything if you want your class to be
empty you can just use this keyword pass
now I can always say e equals to empty
class so what does this do not what does
this do enough okay there are a couple
of interesting things
okay I'll answer those questions the
moment I call this there is no
constructor here right so what is it
executing that's a good question I will
explain that in a little while when we
learn inheritance I'll explain that
right so there is no constructor here
what is it what is
doing all that it's doing here is okay
I'll come to that when we learn
inheritance in more detail so this is
basically creating some memory location
for e right it's basically creating some
memory location which will be pointed by
E that's all it's doing that's all it's
doing intuitively all right so I can say
what is the type of e it says E is a
class which is in the module main module
and its name is empty class because I
call it empty class now your freak
question should be when I call this it
is calling a constructor but I don't see
a constructor here what's happening here
we learn that just bear with me again
very importantly there are lots of
internals there are lots of boundary
cases on how to create classes what
works all the complex cases which are
these boundary cases and internals is
very important if you're a software
development engineer and if you want
again we will not be able to cover that
in in just a couple of life sessions so
I am going to focus more on applied
aspects in the context of machine
learning and air right but if you want
to learn more about it there's a
beautiful documentation and tutorial for
Python 3 again I have made a lot of this
notes based on this itself this is a
very nice documentation after you see
this live session you will be able to go
through this documentation and
understand more details this is not
exactly a documentation it's a tutorial
and how classes themselves work right so
I will not be going and handling all the
internals all the boundary cases however
objects stored internally I will not be
going into the the design of
interpreters for Python that's a huge
internal stopping right that is beyond
the scope of these discussions our
objective is to help you become better
programmers from an applied sense in the
context of a and machine learning right
so that so I'm limiting the scope here
otherwise we can just spend tens or even
I mean even 50 live sessions just on the
internals of Python there is tons of
beautiful internals again these are
stuff that I learned over the years it's
nothing that I learned overnight ok cool
now now here comes some more cases let's
look at some more interesting cases
right so imagine imagine if I do this ok
so there is a concept called as class
variables so let me explain what is a
class variable okay so we created a
class called shot URL love earlier now
we are creating something called as
short URL 1 okay I don't want to name
the same class so this is different
class that I am creating the code
everything is the same except for this
single line so in this single line what
I am storing here is I am creating a fun
I'm creating a variable which stores
this string right look at this this this
variable is outside all of my functions
it's outside all of my functions right
so this is called URL prefix now this
URL prefix which has this string look at
this this URL prefix is nothing but this
this thing such a variable is called a
class variable now let's see how class
variables behave everything else is the
same right now let's see how class
variables behave and why do we need them
suppose if I say s1 equals to short URL
1 ok love okay I am doing some short URL
look at this I'm just you again there's
one more change that I've done I forgot
to mention sorry sorry there is one more
there is one more there is one more
change the time done okay so this URL
prefix I've actually used it in my code
here okay so there is one more change
where is this okay so I'm saying self
dot URL prefix plus short URL I'm using
it only in this line so the two lines of
code change is this line and this above
line so if you look at the previous
class definition let's look at the
previous I just had a constant string
here I just had a string here instead of
keeping the string constant I've created
a variable to store this value now what
happens here is this suppose suppose
okay let's take let's let's see what our
class variables and why are they
important suppose you imagine if I
create a variable s1 equals to short URL
one right short URL one suppose I create
this variable right I also create s2
equals to short URL 2 so a short URL 1
because the class name is short URL 1
right so what am i creating here I am
creating two objects or two variables of
type short URL 1
now both these variables look at this
both these variables will have the same
URL prefix value so if I say s1 dot URL
prefix or a Stu dot URL prefix it will
print this string only because whatever
variables that you declare outside of
these classes they are called class
variables and the same variable is
shared by all objects so if you want to
have a constant string like this if you
want to have a string which is constant
which is used by all the objects of the
class like if I say s1 dot URL prefix it
will print in this ace 2 dot you are a
prefix also to print this right so
that's because both these variables are
of the same class and this URL prefix is
a class variable shared by all objects
all right so that's the concept here now
let's see let's say suppose I have s1
equals to short URL one I use get short
URL I did all of that now if I print s1
dot B okay what is my T again remember
the dictionary B is different so when I
create two variables let's assume I
create variable s1 actually my code I
say s1 a so I have let's say you two
variables s 1 and s 1a both of them are
of the type short URL 1 that class is
short URL 1 when I create the
constructor for this look at when I
create the constructor in the
constructor code what happens I allocate
some memory and it and I create a
dictionary for this similarly when I
when I create s1 a using short URL 1
what am I doing here again I'm creating
some space and I am creating dictionary
D here right so this dictionary is
different from this dictionary remember
this dictionary is different from this
dictionary so s1 so I created s1 here I
created some URL shortening and if I
print s1 dot d what do I get I get s1
dot DS look at this I get s1 dot DS I
get s1 dot DS whatever is there in the
dictionary and if I print s 1 dot URL
prefix I get URL short URL comm now I
create another variable s1 a ok so this
whole dictionary this whole dictionary
is there in be here now s1 a equals to
short URL
now this dictionary is empty now if I
say s1 a dot URL prefix remember URL
prefix is a class variable so both both
object s1 and object s1 a will print the
same thing so s 1 and s 1 a share the
same value for URL prefix because URL
prefix is a property of the class right
it is it is a value that is constant for
all objects of the class unlike this
dictionary look at this this dictionary
for s1 is different from the dictionary
for s1 a for example if you print s1 a
dot d you get an empty dictionary
because I did not add anything to the
dictionary but if you print s1 a dot URL
prefix or s1 dot URL prefix you get the
same string that's important difference
so those are called as class variables
right it's it's useful sometimes so what
is the purpose of class URLs if I want
something to be constant if I want to
have a constant value like this for
which is shared by all the variables
whether you create a variable s1 or you
create a variable s1 a all of them I
want to have this variable which is URL
prefix to be constant if I want that I
create a class variable for it that's
the purpose of it cool simple till now
okay so very importantly this happens to
me a lot and it could happen to many of
you I actually learnt objected
programming in C++ and Java and used it
extensively for many years right so what
happens even of even today ok is when I
write code in Python I get confused with
the syntax and the internals because the
way C++ objects and classes work is
different from how Java works which is
slightly different from how Python works
each of these programming languages
while all of them follow the properties
of object programming all of them have
their differences
so today while writing some of this I
said ok s equals to MU I actually did
this to be honest with you I said I
actually wrote Java or a c++ like syntax
right I actually wrote a Java or C then
I said ok fog this is Python visit on
Java right so it if you already know
object over
in other languages it's very easy to get
confused with syntax and internals so
please be aware of course your your
interpreter will start giving you errors
and you'll learn from it right so now
comes in under theme okay so enough
enough now let's look at this
what if okay let's learn an another
concept called as private members or the
water private members now okay this is
an interesting concept I think
especially people who have learnt C++
write C++ has this keyword called public
and private the same concept does not
exact exact that does not work exactly
in Python so those of you who know C++
think of this is sort of like the
private in C++ but not exactly right so
let me explain what is a private member
and why is it useful so imagine again
now I am creating a new class called
short URL - I am just creating new
classes same code very same code except
a small thing ok very small change now
if you want to have something ok look at
this this is a class variable remember
this is my constructor this is my method
this is a class variable I am creating a
class variable called test all right now
additionally what I am doing here is I
am creating an another variable here
which is underscore underscore URL
prefix variables that are created like
this with two underscores are called as
private members let what is a private
member okay suppose imagine imagine
imagine logically you don't want to be
able to access this string from any
other function outside of this class
which means you should be able to access
this only from the constructor the get
short URL and the get long URL those are
the three methods that you have so if
you want any variable like this to be
only accessible to functions within the
class such a such a variable is often
referred to as a private member right it
could be a variable or it could even be
a function right so again we use the
term member when when you have to say an
attribute or a method okay a member
basically
means an attribute or a method now the
the again
so look at this I'll show you an example
right so now whatever done here so this
is my class variable we know what is a
class variable right a class variable
basically means this is constant for all
objects on the class this is a private
variable or a private member or a
private attribute okay the Python says
Python calls these as attribute
sensitive variables now now this this I
can use it within this function within
this function and all the functions in
the class so the change that I have done
here is I have also used URL prefix here
look at this the underscore underscore
URL prefix I have also used here that's
it nowhere else instead of URL prefix I
changed it now let's see how this works
how do private members actually work
suppose if you don't want this variable
or attribute or this member to be
accessible from outside this class so
let's write some simple code suppose I
say s 2 equals to short URL - if I want
to print s 2 dot class variable remember
look at my class variable my class
variable takes a value test right so
this is cool my class variable takes a
value test right the interesting part
here is if I print s 2 dot class
variable it will print test look at this
it prints test if I print this ace 2
wrote class variable it prints test why
is it so the class variable is storing a
test here it is storing test and if I
create another variable s to a also it
will also print if I if I created
another variable called s to a of class
short URL - and if I print s to weight
or class variable it will also print
test right but remember that I can
access class variable attribute or this
variable from outside the class this
line of code look at this line of code
is outside the class definition its
outside the class definition right but
still I am able to access it using the
using this using this object now the
moment I try to do this especially in
Python 3 if I say X 2 dot underscore
underscore URL prefix the moment I try
to do that it gives me an attribute LF
so
this line print successfully this line
gives me this error it's a short URL to
object has no attribute called
underscore underscore URL prefix again
this is slightly implementation
dependent so technically if you read the
documentation in Python it says there is
no concept called as private variables
but it is implementation dependent
slightly the rule is any variable name
that starts with double underscore or
any function name anything that you have
like this you should not you should
treat it as a variable or a member that
you should only be accessing from
functions within the same class you
should not access it from outside the
class like this you should not access it
that's the simple rule of thumb these
are called as private members again I'm
just introducing some basic concepts now
okay now all this is cool okay so a
couple of theory concepts I just wanted
to touch upon them so that you know what
these terms mean again I have taken
these definitions from Wikipedia so
there are there are a couple of things
that every object programming language
should have right first concept is
called abstraction the second concept is
called as encapsulation now again I have
taken and I have used Wikipedia's
definitions here just to be clear right
so I've also given other other resources
for it new general abstraction basically
means look at this again it's a very
nice definition any significant eight
significant piece of functionality in a
program should be implemented in just
one place in the source code that's the
idea here right so an abstraction
basically means look at this again
abstraction and capsulation are slightly
confusing abstraction basically means
it's always good anything that you want
to represent right the main again this
is a very nice representation this this
statement I have taken from Wikipedia
the main goal is to handle complex again
this I like this definition also the
main goal of abstraction is to handle
complexity by hiding unnecessary details
to the user for example let me let me
give an example right so we talked about
MDR
we use numpy Zandi array do you know how
n di restores things internally again we
discussed this in the in the previous
live session then it stores it using a
chunk of memory using C++ representation
in the previous life session right but
as a user of nd array you don't have to
know how nd array works internally right
so all that is abstracted away all that
is abstracted away you don't have to be
an expert in low-level representation of
numbers Ras matrices tensors you don't
have to worry about all that so you as a
user can just say import numpy and numpy
dot ND array and numpy dot nd has a
bunch of functions you can just use all
of them without worrying about the
implementation details so that's what
abstraction basically is abstraction
basically is all of the things that the
end user like you are a user right as a
programmer my end user I mean you're the
user when you say import numpy right
when you say import numpy as MP and when
you say MP dot nd array right so suppose
you create an ND array so and then you
do some operations on this numpy ND
array so you are the user here you as a
programmer or the user here the person
who implemented and the area is
abstracting away all the complexity away
from you so you as the user or the
programmer need not worry about how this
is implemented this makes life easy
because as a programmer if I just know a
bunch of libraries I don't have to worry
about how things are implemented
internally because this ndra
implementation is fairly non-trivial
right lot of operations are a lot of
functionality and methods on nd array
the implementations are fairly complex
but as a user as a programmer who is
using numpy and D array I don't have to
know all of that that's what
abstractionists abstraction basically
means the internal details of how this
class is implemented all that I don't
care about I only care about what
methods are there what attributes are
there and how I can use them and what do
they do
that's what abstraction is right
again abstraction is not a concept that
is limited only to a butanol programming
abstraction as a concept is there in C
libraries also any library any libraries
that you use in any programming language
so that's what abstraction as a
principal is central to computer
programming right so any any
functionality right whether it is
creating a C library in C used to have
this math lot edge a header file that
you input and if you have ever written C
program you input math not H and you
call a bunch of functions which is the
which are which are which you can access
via the math dot H that is also a form
of abstraction so class is one type of
abstraction while abstraction as a
concept is very general any library any
pre-built library that you as a
programmer use is a form of abstraction
right that's one the second concept
again I've just wanted you to some nice
links here again I prefer this this
definition which I've taken from stachy
five very nice definition next concept
is called as encapsulation right this is
something which is more code to object
programming now you might say okay again
I've taken the definition of
encapsulation from Wikipedia put the
link here in most updated program again
remember abstraction is there even in
non of non-optional programming
languages and cap solution is mostly in
the context of objected programming
wikipedia say is that right mostly in
the context of audience programming but
also others right and capsulation refers
to one of the two one of these two it
could be both combination of both or
just one of them it means encapsulation
basically means it is restricting direct
access to some of objects components
look at our private members right look
at this our private members that we just
discussed right now are private members
right you cannot access them right from
outside the class so this is a way it's
a mechanism
it's macca mechanism as part of the
programming language to restricting
direct access to some of objects
components like private members right
Python has this
similarly another concept in
encapsulation is a language construct
that facilitates bundling of data with
the methods operating on the data this
is what we have seen write a short URL
or short URL class that we have seen is
I have data which is my dictionary and I
have these two functions get get long
URL and get shot you another write these
are functions which are operating on
this data that's why I have put all of
them into one entity that's what is
called as encapsulation cool again these
are technical terms that you encounter
in text books but I want to connect it
to the example that's why I've used
Wikipedia definitions now here comes a
very good example now you know you might
be wondering why the heck are we
complicating things now let me take you
an example from software design okay
suppose okay this is this again this is
where till now whatever we discussed is
just blunt theory okay here is where the
true applied stuff comes suppose i have
implemented the short URL okay so we
have done short URL short URL one short
URL to let's say i've created an
implementation let's call it short URL
final this is a class that I implemented
okay there is some functionality in this
you don't worry about it
right so this is something that I
implemented right suppose you are
another programmer you say hey I really
like this implementation right I want to
now modify it I want to modify it
slightly I want to modify this because
this implementation I know that it has a
dictionary D right internally it has a
bunch of other attributes and a bunch of
other methods right so in the
documentation you just give all the
attributes the data types of the
attributes and all the methods that's
what you just give the implementation
the user or the other programmer so
let's assume this is programmer one this
is programmer two programmer two says
away this this short URL final is very
good but I want to modify it slightly
because I want to use it in a different
context right I want to modify it now he
might say how should I modify it again
depending on the application he could
come to us and say hey I am a software
engineer
I want to design another thing called my
URL shortener I want to design my URL
shortener given that someone else
already implemented short URL final with
some changes what changes do I want to
do two things first I want the get short
URL to have both alphabets and numbers
if you remember in our implementation
yesterday which is also the code that
I've shown you yesterday our short URL
was only generating how was it
generating look at this how was it
generating it would say short URL calm
and it would only generate six to ten
alphabets only no numbers in this now I
want like this is already there let's
assume somebody gave me this this is
implemented by programmer one no
programmer two comes and says I really
like this but I want to modify it
slightly how do I want to modify I want
to have the short URL to contain both
alphabets and numbers not just alphabets
that's the first change he wants to do
the second change he wants to do is I
want to change the URL prefix itself
okay so the URL prefix that is there
here the URL prefix which is one of the
attributes by the way the URL prefix
attribute that is one of the attributes
here is let's say short URL I don't want
to use short short URL because my
website is called my URL shortener so I
want to change the URL prefix to my
short URL simple now let's see that
let's see how this whole short URL final
is there internally look at this look at
that the application is very important
somebody has written this now as
programmer - I want to modify this I
want to modify two aspects in this
alright first I want to have both
alphabets plus numbers you might get
short URL and I want my URL prefix to be
my URL shortener instead of URL short
short URL com
that's what I want now first let's
freeze the you are so in in my let's say
human programmer 1 implemented short URL
final as follows
okay look at this URL prefix is not a
private member it is a public member
which means I can access this from
outside the class also because there is
no 2 under
Yeah right rest everything is the same
there is a constructor here there is a
get shot URL and there is a get long you
are cool all this is cool now I want to
define my short URL look at this I want
to define my short URL but I don't want
to implement everything that is here
because this implementation is pretty
good I really like this implementation
I just want to modify a couple of things
how do I do it now now let's go again
this is very interesting here comes the
concept of inheritance so inheritance is
one of the biggest applications why you
should use object programming as a
machine learning engineer right so
inheritance is the crux let me explain
you how inheritance works okay I
introduced you to some some terminology
also and I will give you some reference
links to learn more so our objective is
let's define my URL shortner class based
on short URL final we have already seen
how this works so what do i do i say
class my URL shortener and within this
braces I am saying short URL final so
what this tells what this means is that
I want to build my URL shortener on top
of short URL final and how do I build it
I'll explain that so this is often
referred to as the base class this is
often referred to as the derived class
in any heritance this concept where I am
saying I already have shot URL final I
already have shot URL final from short
URL final I am designing my URL
shortener right I want to have all the
interesting functionality that it has
but I want to modify a couple of things
right so to say that this to say that I
want to inherit all the important fun
all the functionality in this look at
this first I want to inherit all the
functionality in this so that's why this
is called as base class this is called
as a derived class and how do you tell
the Python interpreter that you say this
is my base class in your function look
at it in your class definition sorry
when you are when you are defining your
whole class you say my class name is my
URL shortener and it
is a child or it is a derived class from
short URL final base class now when you
do this now let's see what happens okay
remember your short URL final has three
things it has a URL prefix it has a
dictionary internally it has a get short
URL it has a get long URL those are the
four things that it has now I am saying
here that URL prefix is my short URL so
what happens here is this this is very
interesting okay so this is very
interesting so I have my short URL final
right with some with some with some with
some in so it has an implementation what
all does it have look at this what all
does it have it has URL prefix right
it has dictionary D it has get short URL
right it has get long URL these are the
four functionality it has now I have
derived from this from this I have
derived so this is my base class and I
have derived from this another class
let's call that class as my URL
shortener right my URL shortener now in
this in this when I am defining this
class if I say URL prefix equals to if
look at this if I say URL prefix equals
to something
now what happens say here is the moment
I inherited this class say I inherited
because of the way I have written my
code this is my base class and this is
my derived class right which means I
have derived I have inherited everything
that is there in this class but here
what am i doing I am redefining my URL
prefix which means your there is already
a URL prefix here so when I inherited
what happens the same URL prefix comes
into this also but now what am I doing
here
I am over writing it I am saying I don't
want to use this URL prefix I want to
have a different URL prefix for this
class right so what's happening here
effectively is very sorry what what's
happening here is by writing this line I
am saying I don't want to use this URL
prefix that is there for the in the in
the base class I want to redefine it to
whatever I want again that was one of
our tasks
right what was a problem what was a real
problem that we wanted to solve we
wanted to create a my URL shortner with
my custom URL prefix and a different
implementation of get short URL that's
what I wanted isn't it cool so what do I
do enough yes so I changed this now
remember in this in this changes that I
wanted to do I didn't want to change the
get long URL look at this in this in
this change look at this
so bio so I overrode this so I over
wrote it so now in my my short URL my
URL shortner my URL prefix will be this
now I also want C my D hasn't changed my
D stays the same because my because I
haven't changed the constructor or
anything I haven't change the
constructor okay I want to change the
get shot URL also I want to change this
I don't want to change this look at all
the stuff that you want to change all
the stuff that you don't want to change
again this dictionary is created in the
in this dictionary is created in the
constructor so if you notice the program
that we have written here if you notice
the program that we have written here
where is this yes so my short URL my
sorry my URL shortener is the derived
class from short URL final and I only
want to change URL prefix and get short
URL if you notice in this class
definition when I am defining this class
look at this this is the whole class
right this is how I am defining this
whole class I did not touch the I did
not touch my I did not I did not
overwrite the init this is a constructor
right I did not overwrite it which means
I am just reusing whatever is the again
there is one more function here that I
forgot to mention sorry there is also a
initializer right there is also is also
a constructor I don't want to modify it
I want to use the same constructor
because in the constructor I am creating
this data structure D or dictionary D
right I don't want to touch the long URL
that's why if you look at this
implementation I am not changing I'm
only changing URL prefix and I am
changing the get short URL so this is
what is called as overriding anything
returns what does it mean it means
overriding basic
whatever I want to change I'm going to
overwrite it right I'm going to
overwrite and overwrite the whole thing
whatever I don't want to change I will
leave it as this now now let's look at a
very simple example right so okay first
and foremost I've changed this cool I
also want to change my get shot to
another how do I want to change it again
we have seen this snippet of code
yesterday right when we saw the
implementation of this yesterday we said
the characters from which I'm going to
create the short URL using this again I
explained the join all of this explained
in the previous live session so in in in
the previous code in the short URL final
code if you see the short URL final code
look at this in the short URL final code
the characters from which the the URL
shortener is generated is only ASCII
lowercase right in here I'm over writing
the function the implementation I just
copied the same implementation nothing
changes much I've just overwritten and I
said the characters from which I want to
construct because the characters from
which I want to construct the suffix
write the the basically the URL
shortener I want to use both lowercase
and digits again this is the only change
using the single line change I am saying
the get short URL that is part of my my
URL shortener will create URLs which has
both lowercase and digits rest
everything I am NOT overriding
again the fun thing here is I know look
at this this is already implemented by a
programmer p1 look at this the whole
thing short URL final is implemented by
programmer p1 I as a programmer p2 want
to have most of this functionality I
only wanted to change two aspects of it
and only the aspects that I want to
change I changed rest everything I kept
it as this so as a programmer if I want
to modify a functionality of a data
structure or any class that is created
in some library suppose in some suppose
a lump int array suppose I have class
vampire ndia right suppose I like
everything in it there is one function
or one method that I want to change what
do I do
I create a new
class called my ndra right I create a
new class called my ndra
and I'll simply inherit ndra and
whatever new functionality I want to add
I'll add it rest everything I will keep
it as this right because all the
beautiful stuff I want to reuse so what
is it creating it is helping you reuse
the code this is one form of reusing
right so again this simplifies the code
when you write extremely large complex
code now let's see some examples right
so I say m1 equals to my short URL my
URL shortner now the question here is I
did not define the constructor here look
at this I did not I did not define the
constructor here so which constructor is
running look at this in my my you are a
shortener I did not create a constructor
so which which constructor is running
because we have inherited look at this
because my URL shortner is inherited
from short URL final it's its
constructor is also inherited here so
what is running here is basically the
base classes constructor is running
right so what is running actually is
this little bit of code what is actually
running is this snippet because the
short URL final is the parent or the
base class to my URL shortener right so
this is important now if I say print m1
dot d look at this see in in in my URL
shortener remember that m1 is an object
of type my URL shortener nowhere did I
use no where did I initialize my
dictionary d but since it is inheriting
from short URL final this B that we are
talking about is the D that is there in
short URL final and the D is initialized
to an empty dictionary by the
constructor so as soon as this line got
executed the base class constructor is
executed right and if I can print it
cool now look at that now look at this
now when I say m1 dot get URL shortener
I say amazon.com it gives me a URL
shortener because when I say get short
URL with short URL does it call always
so look at this I have m1 which is a
variable
I have m1 which is a variable of type my
shot URL so when I say m1 not get shot
URL first it goes to this class and it
says is there an implementation of that
short URL here if there is an
implementation it will go execute this
right so what's happening right now is
it went to so the get shot URL it is
executing is the get shot URL that is
there in the that is there in this class
that is there in my URL shortener right
it is it's actually executing this code
in this code we know that it the the
random string that it creates is both
lowercase and uppercase digits so
lowercase digits sorry it's both
lowercase ascii and digits right so
that's why if you notice here you get 2
9 3 all of them also so what which which
code is it running it is running my URL
shorteners get shot URL now comes the
fun part okay now if I say okay oh I
forgot to put it sorry okay suppose
imagine imagine if I run okay suppose if
I say if I if I write if I wrote this
line m1 dot get long URL
suppose if I call this function with
some URL which function will it execute
remember m1 is of class my my shot my
URL shortner my URL shortner now in this
class I have not overwritten the get
long URL if you look at the deployment
ation here look at the implementation
here in this my shop my URL shortener I
did not override the get the get long
URL I did not implement it so what
happens it will go to the parent class
because everything that is there in the
parent class was inherited into the
child class I did not modify it so what
does it run actually enough so what does
it run off the again remember that my
short URL is a is a derived class from
short URL final now the short URL final
had this function called let get long
URL so what it is executing is this so
whenever you are trying to execute this
it always goes to this object is of type
my URL shortener first it will check in
this class definition
if this function exists if it doesn't
exist it will go to its parent it will
go to its parent this is the time it
finds this it will keep going again
that's the simplest form of inheritance
there are more complexities here but I
am just covering the base cases will
cover the will cover the complex cases
little later either today or tomorrow
based on the time okay now let's look at
one more example right so we have seen a
varies again this is a real world
example in the real world
inheritance is extremely useful first of
all there are two parts right the
concept of a class the concept of a
class is useful because all the data all
the data structures and data types along
with the functions that you want to
operate on it are all grouped together
in one logical entity right so that's
why having the concept of a class and
object is very useful number one right
number two again understanding why we
need it is extremely important I can't
emphasize this now inheritance
inheritance is a cool way to extend
existing classes it is an easy way to
extend existing to extend or to
re-implement existing functionality
rights if I want to you reuse everything
that is there and modify only small
pieces of it inheritance is an extremely
useful thing again this is extensively
used in most libraries that you use in
Python okay good sounds good now let's
let's go let's look again I have taken
an example again this is a this is a toy
example but I also wanted to show you a
toy example okay again some time
examples are good to understand the
internals again the example that I've
shown pilum is a very real world example
let's look at a simple toy example I
have again taken it from over iq.com
very nice examples they have let's look
at this let's walk through this code
snippet right so I have import mat ok so
before we go in let me see we have a lot
of stuff to cover so let's let me do one
thing I'll go into the comment section
I'll go into the chat window answer a
few questions and then come back to this
right so just give me a couple of
minutes I want to take a quick water
break I'll take a water break try to
answer a few questions please leave your
questions there I try to answer a few
questions
again I'll not be able to answer deep
questions about the internals of a butyl
programming in Python because that I
have to show many more any questions
related to things that we've just
discussed right now what we have
discussed is why do we need classes how
do we do classes in Python why do we
need inheritance and how do we do
inheritance I'll show you more examples
and real world examples also there is a
lot more stuff to cover of course will
not be able to finish in one live
session so we'll use tomorrow's live
session also ok oh why do we need yeah
I'm happy some of you are already asked
and answering others question thank you
folks thank you very much so I'm happy
that you guys are answering others
questions thank you very much ok so what
if ok this is good good so you can again
there is something so what if you have
both base and derived class constructors
you can use them again there is
something called super keyword I will
explain you that in the coming sections
that's a case that I handled somebody
asked what is the need of an empty class
there are some uses to empty classes
also I think I can show you that with an
example let me show you that example
there is this again those of you who
know see structures will appreciate it
where is it
blah blah blah ok look at this look at
this ok this is a very nice again I'm
just using the tutorial from Python
documentation that I've pointed to so
look at this ok so if you have an empty
class okay so it's called ODS and so in
this section right so again this is from
the Python dot o-- r-- g-- python
version 3 tutorials ok somebody asked
what is the purpose of having this so
some of you who have studied CC has this
concept called structures right a
structure basically in c is basically if
you have a bunch of related things for
example imagine if you have an employee
standard toy example right if you have
an employee employee has name department
and
suppose if you want to create see like
structures again I don't think many of
you know Pascal Pascal also has this
concept called as a record I learned
Pascal when I was learning something
called as principles of programming
language where a lot of programming
language concepts are covered from from
the viewpoint of many many programming
languages right but anyway I'm not an
expert in Pascal I do know see fairly
well right in C there is this concept
called structure a structure basically
has only attributes and no functions
only attributes if you want to create
something like a C structure using
Python right you can actually use it
like this you say class employee pass so
what it's creating is just an employee
without any objects sorry without any
attributes without any methods nothing
so you can say John equals to employee
now you can create whatever fields you
want no I get this is this is I mean I
don't even know why they created this
concept but anyway so this is one of the
applications of empty classes look at
this so John equals to employee John dot
name is John Doe I can add whatever
attributes I want and now what happens
John is like a structure which is
storing which is storing three
properties of this employee named John
with the full name Department salary etc
so one of the applications that I know
of is is to create a see like structures
again if you don't know C don't worry
about it okay this is one of the
applications that is also given in the
tutorial for Python Python for general
programming again somebody asks why are
we using empty classes in the real world
yes here is an example right you want to
create structures right suppose imagine
on this employee I don't want to create
any functions or methods I don't want to
create any functions or methods I just
want to have variables of course I could
have created a class also what I could
have done is I could have created a
class right and I could have said okay I
could have created a I could have
created a what-do-you-call-it i could
have created a constructor right within
the constructor i could have had
Department salary etc so there is only a
constructor there are no other functions
I could have done that that way also
again so this is one of the applications
that I know of right so one of the stuff
that I know of again it's not widely
used there are lot of boundary cases in
programming languages right so I
consider this sort of like a boundary
case a lot of sort of like a boundary
case within the programming language lot
of these boundary cases are seldom used
they are not often used there very
rarely used in actual design of
libraries or input in usage I have never
used this in my life I know that
something like this is possible but I've
never used it to the best of my
knowledge if I recall
I've never reviewed code Python code
which uses this to the best of my
recollection again I've read thousands
of lines of code and reviewed thousands
of lines of code I don't think I have
ever seen an implementation like this to
the best of my recollection right so
it's very rarely used so so what if you
don't have self things will fail dude so
let me show you that's a good question
what if we don't have self okay so let's
actually write something right insert
insert cell above they just create a
simple class no so that's a good
question so Class A they just create
again for many of your questions
my suggestion this is what again I don't
remember all the rules of Python by
heart whenever I have a doubt this is
what I do I just implement it using a
simple toy example and figure it out
again why do I do that of course I can
read the whole documentation internally
again I'm not to be very frank with you
while I'm used Python I'm I'm not the
expert in Python what do I mean I'm not
the expert in Python I mean I don't know
all the internal implementation of
Python I know some of them but I have
seen programmers I've worked with fairly
senior engineers in my teams who know
the internal inside out of Python
they've actually literally ripped open
the Python internals and read thousands
of lines of code so as compared to them
I have no where there I've used Python
extensively I know some of the cases I
know some of the implementation details
I know how the interpreter works in some
cases but not all the cases so whenever
I have a question like this I've been
doing this ever since I learned but
whenever I learn a new programming
language also I do this I learned Scala
beautiful functional programming
language I would try I would try all
this so somebody said okay the question
here was what if there is more self so
let's say you my Creator let's write a
function right so def F okay let's write
a function f so let's assume this
function takes 10 or so this function
takes I okay so let's write print I
let's again that's it
very simple right so this is a class a
which has a member function f which
takes I as a variable remember I've not
seen I'm not written self here I'm just
printing I okay so now I create to say I
was able to write Java syntax okay so or
now you might wonder which constructor
is running I'll tell you that in the in
the coming sections there is something
called as an object class etc I'll come
there so I say a equals 2a so lowercase
a is my variable name this is my class
name so if I say a dot F and 10 okay
let's see what happens so print okay one
second so instead of doing this okay I
can just say a dot F right anyway the
print is anyway there so I don't have to
do that okay so if I execute this what
happens look at this see what did we do
again this is a question that somebody
asked right what happens if there is no
self again when you are in any such
doubt write a simple snippet of code
fine lines of code say I should have
given self here I should have given self
I told you write the first variable is
always self if I don't have self so what
this line executed successfully what did
it create it created some memory
location where I have a cool all that is
cool now I am saying a dot F and I'm
passing ten to it so the moment it
passes this look at this in this line
there is an error what is the error it's
a type error look at the read the error
carefully it says F takes one positional
argument but two were given so all that
it's saying here is this the path there
is
there is some mistake in the arguments
that's what it's literally telling you
it's literally telling me that there is
some error in the arguments now what if
I change this lightly what if I put self
, this will this work not yes it works
so if you don't have self if you don't
have self it will start creating these
number of argument errors very simple
example very very again whenever I have
a doubt in any concept this is how I try
to fix these doubts right
so again Python doesn't call them as
pointers Python calls them as references
right not point again it's just a again
Java also calls again
ice I come from the C C++ world they
have a concept called as pointers Java
and Python call them as references all
right so again it's a language specific
internal implementation but if you want
to think about it they're very similar
ok so this is good if you have two
objects of the same name will they be
equal try it let's try it again
I know the answer but I want to try it
for you right so suppose if I say a
equals again any question you have it's
just five lines of code like this okay
so a equals to a or so if you do this
okay so you are creating two variables
of the same name okay what happens now
it's executed so enough let's let's do
one thing let let's modify it slightly
No
so let's say okay so let's create a
let's create a constructor
okay let's create a constructor self and
I so then what we do here is we say I
equals to I equals to or let's put some
variable write some very equals to I
okay so let's see let's see what happens
and I'm just ignoring this so what am I
doing here
I just modified my class definition I
created a class a where in in the
constructor I take I and I'm creating
this variable with this now let's see
what happens okay so a print okay print
a
so I'll have to change this also now so
now what happens I have ten here I have
twenty here let's see let's just say so
if I say print a dot or let let's write
this print dot a dot where control X
let's see what what this will do again
it just it just simple two lines code
sometimes that will help you okay a dot
we're sorry sorry sorry sorry what is
happening here very equals to B okay so
where is there within this okay one
second one second one second so def
print we're just give me a second self
print self dot well okay so just sorry
my mistake so if I just call this okay
and if I just call print to where a dot
print where yeah I should say a dot
print where because it doesn't know what
it is a dot print where okay so now this
will work ctrl C again I'm just I'm just
constructing a simple toy example what
am I doing here I'm creating a variable
for the object I should say self dot
self dot we're equals to I and I'm
printing self dot Val cool so let's see
what happens okay look at this now a is
is my first variable look at this so
enough we can also print the address of
a and things like that right so look at
this is this a I'm creating an object
here right and I'm calling print all
right now what is it printing it is
printing the ten that is there now this
a is overriding the previous n right
obviously right if you in Python in
general okay just like in Python the
same thing works here let me insert a
new thing new cell below suppose in
Python if I say again here int so a
equals to 10 again a equals to 20 now
what is happening in this case we look
at what is happening so these are
basically if you think about it a is
actually a object of type integer class
when you do this when you do this
actually can print the type of thing the
same thing actually why I'm are
complicating it print type a
okay so if I just do this one second let
me just remove this line okay so what is
it look at this when I when I am just
saying a equals two pen what it's
actually creating is it's basically
creating an object a is actually an
object of type int class right that's
what I again what we think of as a data
type is actually an integer class right
so what it's doing here
a is the object name then is the value
that is stored internally right cool now
if I override it no let's let's so i
already executed this line insert cell
below so if i if i execute there is a
sorry sorry sorry i should go up
okay insert cell below so in this line
if I just say equals to 20 now what
happens right so this a so this a is
simply overridden by it internally what
happens is internally Python stores all
the variables that are there in the
given context so there is something
called as a symbol table again I am
going into compiler design so there is
something called as a symbol table which
most compilers and interpreters use so
what they do here is so as soon as this
line got executed it would create an
object name a with a pointer to where in
memory this whole thing we stood now
when I when I say a equals to 20 what
it's doing here is this is check this is
being changed because I'm using the same
variable name like in python in python i
can override the variable name the same
thing is happening here also again I
want to the simplest way to understand
it here is in terms of an integer when
you do a equals to 10 for y equals to 20
a gets overridden the same thing happens
even with a class because a is nothing
but an integer integer a is nothing but
an integer object to start with because
it's data type is integer to start with
right so I hope this is clear when you
when you when you again create an
another object with the same name it
gets overridden in this case right just
like just like your trip typical
variables because your so-called integer
variable is actually an object of type
class int that again any such simple
questions that you have you can simply
try it with ten lines less than ten
lines code guys you can easily try it
right so I wanted to cover a couple of
eggs okay let's cover one more example
and we'll pack it up for today but
tomorrow I wanted to explain you about
actually I think I can explain a couple
of things okay so let's let's try to I
wanted to walk you through one more
simple toy example so that things become
much more clear for you before we jump
into the next session I don't think we
can complete everything today that's why
I have allocated to live sessions and
let's again the lesson learned here is
any simple question you have sometimes I
don't remember all the internals of
Python I just write simple code snippet
like this and figure it out right so
it's very simple okay sounds good again
the other way is to read through the
documentation that's certainly one great
way to learn but if you want a quick
answer sometimes instead of reading
through lots of documentation writing a
simple snippet of code to figure it out
is also easy okay now let's see let's
see an another example from geometry
again I have taken this code snippet
from over IQ it's a very nice try
example okay so first they've created
this class called shape okay so let's
let me just scroll this my computer
stuck come on Wow Wow my computer stuck
one second
the keyboard is also not responding come
on
the mouse is not responding oh this is
responding somehow I think my bluetooth
got disconnected okay that's okay that's
okay that's okay one second let me just
check if my I think my huh what happened
to my okay one second guys one second
okay now it's working I think small
glitch with my keyboard and mouse my
pointer my notepad is working anyway I'm
back thank you I I was little scared
that the internet went down or something
went on my computer hung up I've seen
thankfully hit my computer hangs very
few times thankfully so I was shocked
anyway so let's go to this code snippet
and understand it right so simple
example so I create a class called shape
right this is the constructor again look
at the first parameter always self now I
have color equals to black again here
what am i doing I am giving default
parameters we know right fighting
functions I can give default parameter
values right so color equals to black
field equals to false so in self I am
creating two variables underscore
underscore color underscore underscore
field and if the default value is black
so in the initial in the inner
constructor the color will be black
field equals to false so he's creating a
shape object look at this he is creating
a shape object the shape object has a
couple of things it has color it has
filled or not color basically says what
color is the shape filled with right and
whether it is filled or not which is
binary true or false right these are the
two attributes right and they're a bunch
of functions get color set color get
filled set filled right so for functions
right yeah so I I just put four lines
here this is what my shape object it my
shape class looks like simple good now
what I've done here is this I have
created an another class called as
rectangle again remember a rectangle is
also a shape so I want to I want to have
all of these interesting properties or
interesting attributes and functions or
methods cars
into shape also in my rectangle let us
say so what am I doing here I am
creating a class called rectangle but
the syntax says that I am inheriting
from shape that's important right so
what am i doing I have my shape here I'm
inheriting into my rectangle class now
in rectangle class what do I have okay
oh there is super here somebody asked me
that question right so let me explain
you okay so the rectangle class itself
hasn't has a hazard constructor this
constructor has self length and breadth
so what are the two important things
about a rectangle remember the shape has
to the shape has of let me write it down
here the shape has a color and filled or
not these are the two things now the
rectangle since it inherits from shape
it will also get color filled and all
the four functions it will get all of
that but the rectangle in addition to
that the rectangle in addition to that
has length and breadth in addition to
this now remember I am creating two new
variables here which means I get these
variables I get these functions and I
get additional variables and additional
functions now what all functions I have
get length set length get bread set
bread get area get perimeter there are
six functions here now I am NOT over
writing anything remember I am NOT over
writing anything from shape so in
rectangle because this is inherited
again I'm I'm representing inheritance
with this arrow mark because rectangle
is inherited from shape rectangle will
have color filled the four functions get
color set color get filled set fill it
has length breadth and this
functionality it is it has all this
functionality and some other
functionality cool till of everything is
okay right
so now let's go to another class okay
the third class here is circle okay so
class circle this is also inheriting
from shape which means from shape I am
inheriting in another class called
circle and what else stuff sorry before
I go there sorry my bad okay so there is
one more thing I wanted to explain
before I go that there is this key word
super okay so let me explain you how
this works so for example if I say R
equals to rectangle so
if I just say this suppose if I say R
equals to rectangle 10 comma 20 suppose
if I say this what happens now okay
remember what am i calling i'm create
are is an object of type rectangle class
and i'm calling its constructor its
constructor has self anyway will be
there it has length and breadth so
length equals to ten first parameter
Brett T equals to 20 now since the
rectangle also has color filled and all
of them I also want to initialize this
rights look at this in this snippet of
code I'm saying self length equals to
length breadth equals to Brent so I'm
initializing the length and breadth in
this object are but there are also color
and field so if I also want to run my
base class remember this is my base
class if I want to run my base class
constructor I can simply use this super
dot so the super the super basically
means that whatever is is the base class
again this is a derived class right
remember this is the derived class so
super basically means that I want to
call the constructor again underscore
underscore unit underscore underscore is
a constructor so super dot in it
basically means I want to call the
constructor of the base class from which
I have derived and I am NOT passing any
parameters here okay so the moment I do
this what happens the shapes constructor
is executed in the shapes constructor
very importantly let me just erase this
in the shapes comes further I don't I
don't have to pass anything because this
is optional parameter this is also
optional parameter right so what happens
is in my rectangle I also have color and
field those color and field will be
initialized to black and false right so
that that that's the purpose of super
somebody asked me how do you call what
if somebody asked in the comment section
in in the live chat what if the base
class has a constructor and the child
class also has a constructor it is
always a good habit to call the base
class or the parent class constructor so
that all these variables are also
initialized
simple okay now let's go to circle again
there's a very simple example okay
circle has what all what old circle has
is in the constructor it you can give it
radius right it has radius but remember
that circle is inheriting from shape
circle is inheriting from shape which
means circle also gets colorful and
these four attributes so these four
methods circle itself has four at a four
get radius set radius get area get
perimeter so it has four functions of
its own right cool this structure I hope
it's clear now let's look at just some
class create some just object creation
now imagine if r1 equals two rectangle
so look at the code snippet r1 equals
two rectangles this is the length and
this is the width now what are we doing
we are just printing the area perimeter
how do I get the area I just say r1
don't get area how do I get the
perimeter r1 not get perimeter here
comes the most important thing if I just
say r1 remember r1 is an object of type
rectangle now if I say r1 dot get color
first it will go and check in the
rectangle implementation if get color is
there get color is not there because we
have not overwritten it get color is
there in the parent class all in the
base class so it will go ahead and
execute the get color from here so the
get color should actually print black
because the default value is black right
so let's see let's see if you print it
it will print black it'll print black
similarly when I call R 1 dot R 1 dot
get filled right get field is not there
in rectangle it is there in the base
class so when I call it it will go in it
is go and run the function or the method
which is there in the base class or the
parent class or it's also called the
super basically in the in the parent or
the base class same logic with circle
also same code it just you're calling
the functions that are there here you
are calling the functions that are there
here both for rectangular circle just a
very simple explanation simple concept
right now now comes another interesting
concept I think I will cover this right
so let's let's cover this there are
couple of things let me cover a couple
of concepts and then probably from
multiple inheritance we'll take it
tomorrow
right so the couple of very simple
concepts so till now in love we came
across this case also right so let me
write that case let me let me write that
case so imagine if I say class right my
class I'm just defining a class of my
own
nothing nothing internally and let just
the sorry sorry my bad if I just say
pass it's an empty class I mean this is
a simplest car class that you can create
right now after this imagine if I just
say M equals to my class M equals to my
class now here comes a small dilemma
okay very interesting question I think
I've asked this question just a while
ago also now my class in the definition
of my class there is no constructor but
what they should actually call the
constructor they should actually call
the constructor of my class they should
actually call the constructor of my
class but there is no constructor of my
class there is no because I have not
defined underscore underscore in it here
I have not defined it
I have not there is there is no
definition here and so what does it
execute but this dollar will give an
error this runs perfectly right how does
it run so in Python the logic is this
any class that you create is by default
a derived class of a special class
called s OB je CT with lowercase o
object so there is a class called object
again this is confusing sometimes there
is a class called object in Python
because there is this class called
object every class that you define every
class is derived from object that's why
when you write like this what this
actually means is what this actually
means is let me use a different what
this actually means is internally when
you write something like this without
anything internally the Python
interpreter converts this into class
myclass
and object so object is a class from
which every class which
inherit anything in edits by default so
object is the parent class or the base
class of all classes that you create in
Python that's that's a very interesting
concept now there are a couple of very
interesting functionality that is there
in the object class the object class has
three very interesting functions first
function is init second function is new
third function is STR again all of them
with double underscore double underscore
prefix and suffix now what do these
things do so enough now remember the
object class itself the object class
again this is confusing sometimes has
underscore underscore in it right so
when you when you call this constructor
it is going to call the constructor of
the base class which is the object
because there is no constructor defined
here it looks at its base class its base
class by default is object so it would
run the constructor of the object class
right I mean this this is very
interesting
now the object class has three very very
it has it has many other things but it
has three important methods okay
new init STR this new function creates a
new object okay so actually what happens
is the constructor doesn't get called
first this is an internal implementation
detail of Python so when you when you
when you actually call a constructor it
is not the init function that gets
called directly first the function new
is called new does some memory
allocation and other things and it then
creates this function called as in it so
the default constructor for all classes
is init in the init of the object class
there is also a class there is also a
method I keep calling function because I
come from the C C++ world I always call
functions but Python calls the methods
again it is the same concept
there are some programming languages
that call them as procedures right I
think Pascal calls them as procedures if
I'm not wrong okay so okay the STR
basically is a function or method that
is defined an object
job is again we typically use this to
write code to convert any object into
string for example look at this let's
actually write this right so for example
suppose if I let me just create a cell
here send below
suppose if I just say a equals 2 1 2 3 4
okay cool this is good so I'm just
creating a list so if I say print type a
certain type a so what happens enough
what is the type it is again a is an
object of class list this much we are
clear okay now if I say print a what
happens now see a is an object so the
moment I type print a look at this this
this is very interesting ok with this
I'll explain you the con the context
behind string right so a is of type
sorry so a I've created a list here a
when it when I type the when I say when
I print the type of a I know it is class
list right it is class list right so a
is an object of type class list number
one when I say print the air what is it
what is being printed it is printing
open parenthesis 1 comma 2 comma 3 comma
4 it why is it printing it in this
format who told it like where is it
defined that when I print a list it
should actually print all the items that
I have in the list in in my square
braces look at this I did not do
anything I just said print a a I just
said print the object what it printed is
actually the contents in the object who
told it to do so so the the in the in
the implementation of class list right
in the implementation of class list
remember list is also list also again
there is a concept called as multiple
inheritance but remember that list is
also a child class of object because
every class that you define in Python is
a child class or a derived class of
object and object itself contains this
string this string function so the
people who implemented the
best class overwrote the string function
so they would have written def they
would have overwritten it self of course
okay and they actually wrote the logic
saying we will print all the elements
that are there in our list we will print
it in this format right so whenever you
create an object whenever you create an
object or whenever you create a class if
you want an object of the class to be
printed comfortably for reading remember
see the string function is part of
object any class that wants to create a
functionality to convert an object into
a string for printing purpose mostly for
oftentimes for printing purpose right if
you want to if you want to implement a
functionality of converting any object
of that class into a string you just
override this that's it so for example
let's take a very simple example here
right so okay let's say class imagine if
I'm creating this class okay remember
again it's simple toy example nothing
fancy here
I showed a very nice example from Matt
plot clip just after this so imagine if
I create this class I have not mentioned
anything the fact that I have not
mentioned anything basically means that
this has to be object now because this
is this is inheriting from the object by
default that's pythons default default
by default object is the base class now
object has this underscore underscore
string string right so now how am i
writing it I'm over writing this string
and I am saying and I am saying just
return something whatever I want
whatever string I want I can return it
now here comes the fun part now if I
create an object see one of class with
STR again this has no constructor so it
is comes it is calling the constructor
of the object class now the moment I say
print c1 look at this the moment I say
print c1 what does it do it
immediately calls because the print
function calls implicitly it causes him
implicitly it calls the STR the
score underscore STR underscore
underscore belonging to this class of
which this is an object so the moment I
do they see if you want to print any
object you have to overwrite the string
and in general it's a good habit to do
it it's a very good habit programming
habit because if you want to visualize
what's there in this object for example
in our short URL right in our short URL
I could have in a short URL class right
I could have just implemented this
function self of obviously I would have
just implemented it and here I could
have said just print the dictionary be
just print the dictionary D then what
happens at any point at any point
imagine if I have s 1 equals to some
short URL some short URL right s 1 is a
variable name of class short URL if I
just said print s 1 right if I just said
print s 1 what would it have done it was
simply printed the whole dictionary
corresponding to s 1 object right so if
you want to be able to print an object
you have to override the STR
functionality number 1 now let's look at
again I really like matplotlib
documentation because ok let's just go
here I want to show you something okay
so here is matplotlib right matplotlib
has tons of classes now here if you go
to it so we are in the matplotlib module
in in a sub module called s axis okay so
this is one again how would I come here
you can just go to I think I went to
this page right and I went to
documentation within documentation there
is something called as API modules okay
I went to modules I went to access so
these are all the modules that are there
modules and sub-modules basically in
matplotlib right again we have used
matplotlib extensively throughout our
course right so if you again matplotlib
for those of you who may not know it's
it's a library that is extremely popular
for plotting data in machine learning
here now we are in this map plot lib dot
access sub module within this module
here are all the classes I will
this diagram is the inheritance diagram
this says that there is a class called
matplotlib called axis again this is the
module this is the sub module this is
the class name module sub module class
name so there is a class called ticker
there is a class called artists from the
class artists again this is a base class
it has a child class called as axis this
has a child class called as peak there
is a child class of axis called as
x-axis there is a child class to this
called y-axis there is a child class for
this called X stick and Vitek again
these are basically your x axis in a
plot and y axis in a plot your tics are
basically what you have here these are
called as ticks x axis ticks and Y axis
ticks right here is the whole whole
structure of all the important classes
corresponding to this axis sub module
and obviously if you go down you get all
the attributes these are all the
attributes that you have again in the
constructor these are the parameters
that you have again look at this look at
it it clearly says the class is
matplotlib dot access not axis and this
is a base class for x axis and y axis
and the constructor has axis and pick
radius equals 215 again you may not know
all this if you have not if you've never
written code in matplotlib but
understanding what is a class what is an
object what is a base class what is a
derived class understanding it helps you
read lots of libraries very easily
libraries again most of machine learning
you will be you will be using tons of
machine tons of tons of others libraries
like matplotlib matplotlib is just one
of the many many libraries that you use
as a machine learning in general data
scientists so to be able to understand
the functionality and even if you get
errors to be able to debug these errors
you have to know the basics of it
alright so these basics I hope will help
you tomorrow or we have already crossed
8 p.m. sorry so tomorrow we'll continue
on some examples of multiple inheritance
polymorphism there is also this concept
called as polymorphism plus in
how does it work then we'll look at how
does plasma polymorphism inheritance
works for inbuilt data structures we'll
look at some examples of I terrible
objects how do you implement some useful
how do you make your class objects how
do you create a terrible objects and
things like that again I'll try to walk
you through both my examples and
real-world examples right so I share the
I shared this notebook til wherever we
have completed till love in about 10
minutes after this live session and okay
sounds good so anyway some of you have
questions how do we override the STR of
this you can do it right so how do you
let me take a couple of questions so if
you want to override this right if you
want to override this you just so the
question here is how do you override
underscore underscore STR off numpy nd
array right that should be easy
the way you do it is you create a
subclass for nd array right for example
if you are not happy with the with the
way numpy prints with the way India
arrays string prints right so what you
do is simple you just create a new class
called as my nd array right you just you
just make it a child class off numpy dot
nd array right in here you only
overwrite the STR function you only
right you only override the STR function
of course with self and whichever way
you want to print you printed aside I am
writing the again C syntax sorry there
is there should be def here again I'm
just explaining you right so the basic
concept so what you do here is you are
creating one more subclass again this is
your base class you are creating a
subclass you are some class of India Rea
your only overriding the underscore
underscore string which ever however way
you want to print just print it again
that's a good example that's that's a
very good example okay so sounds good
let's again I'm sorry I've overshot a
little I'll provide this notes and
tomorrow we'll cover some more concepts
hopefully by tomorrow and I hope to
finish all the 400 programming and in
the next sessions we'll cover other
topics
okay thank you folks thank you very much
again just just before I leave very
importantly this is it's important that
again the reason I am covering some of
these from a very basic level unlike
other sessions is because it's it's it's
it's something that that we hope will
help many students use and extend
libraries that are already there to
match their needs right so I hope that
helps sounds good thank you very much
