hi folks I guess we are life I'm just
sharing my screen for the rest of the
session
yeah so the good thing here is just let
me know if everything is clear I'm an
audible can you see my screen all of
that stuff just wanted to make sure that
everything is clear
let me just yeah I can hear myself so
things are looking good no issues from
my side is am i audible can you please
confirm folks I have a live session with
all the so we will be using ipython
notebooks for most of these code-based
live sessions again I've made ample
number of mistakes so that I can teach
you how to get out of problems and bugs
in errors that typically students make
so yes audible that's good that's good
folks thank you thank you for the
confirmation that everything is clear
and audible we'll start in a couple of
minutes because the scheduled time is 6
p.m. I'm a couple of minutes early so
any questions you have
just shoot on the just shoot on the on
the chat window I will try to answer as
many as possible before we start we'll
start sharp at like maybe 1 or 2 minutes
past 6:00
all right so that sounds good so I'll
share again I have a ipython notebook
which I'll share at the end of it you
can open it using Google collab you can
run it on your own laptop slash desktop
whatever you want later right I'll share
the link after the live session is over
okay sounds good again just wanted to
make sure that the objective of these
live sessions is very clear the
objective is to help everyone become
better programmers because that is one
of the one of the things that we see
many students both from especially from
non computer science backgrounds but
also students from CS backgrounds slack
so this is a this is a critical skill
you might know everything in machine
learning and deep learning you could you
might be able to prove
every mathematical equation but if you
cannot write programs you cannot get a
machine learning job it's as simple as
that very often the first round itself
for most companies is a simple Python
programming round very often in 90% of
the cases right so you have to be good
with some programming language people
are comfortable with Python or whichever
language you are in right again I limit
the discussion to the topic at hand
somebody is asking can we cover data
structures and algorithms Rama I think
he also emailed us I don't think we can
cover it in these sessions because our
objective is very clear of course we
will cover some data structures
algorithms some good problems around
time complexity space complexity but
which are relevant only in the context
of AML because if I start doing data
structures and algorithms that's a beast
onto itself right I can spend I mean we
have a course for interview preparation
data structures algorithms which is
already like what which is already 150
160 hours enough right so I don't think
we'll do justice to students for machine
learning and arrows if I focus only on
data structures algorithms our core
focus will be Python programming for
machine learning and a applications in
this process we will cover some data
structures algorithms without doubt but
the focus will not be data structures
algorithms right so okay sounds good
so what habit can you make to become a
good programmer you just have to code
like I remember I started coding in 1999
I was in ninth grade then I was a ninth
class I started so thankfully I was in C
BSC and computer science was one of the
options that we could take I think in
11th and 12th when I joined it used to
be called information informatics
practice or something like that
right I started coding from 1999 I
started coding in language called visual
FoxPro which is a Microsoft language
then I also learned C C++ of course in
my BTech I learned tons of languages but
the only way you become good programmer
it's a very simple concept the way you
become a good programmer is a
percent 80% practice 80% code yourself
my practice I don't mean see others code
I mean write your own code write your
own code right 20 percent read others
code read others code this is when you
are at a beginner level when you are at
a beginner level 80% you should practice
write your own code again I'll share
hundreds of problems by the end of this
live session that you can practice from
20% read others code and as you become
better and better as you become a more
mature programmer what happens is you
can do like today let's take after five
years of somebody with five years
experience ten years and twelve years is
slightly more but once you are
comfortable with programming in any
programming language or at least one
programming language once you become
slightly more mature then you can spend
50% of your time reading others code
reading others could and 50% writing
your own code there is no escaping to
writing your own code of course when you
become so this is when you become
intermediate level this is basic and
when you are at the entry level this is
intermediate level once you become an
expert level then probably you can do
30% write your own code and 70% read
others code from open-source libraries
right this is this is expert level right
so again I do most of this because I
read a lot of open source code of
libraries and things like that again
I've been doing this for for a quite lot
of time right so this is what I would
recommend if you're a beginner I
strongly recommend you spend most of
your time writing code I'll share
hundreds of problems with you by the end
of this live session that you can use
from multiple websites and resources
write 20% read others code but at
intermediate level 50% write your own
code 50% read others code because you
can learn a lot from reading others code
in expert level this is what you would
be doing again you read others code a
lot because you're doing code reviews
and things like that right so this is a
simple rule book that you can follow
okay sounds good folks let's dive into
the discussion itself where are we okay
so okay so let's again this is the first
session in this series so I've kept it
quite simple I also did not know I hope
everybody can see my ipython notebook
and again this is the first session in
this series so I've kept it quite simple
to be honest with you we are only
solving some basic Python problems some
of you who are good programmers may not
benefit much from this session okay let
we'll be very clear so I'm assuming that
I've listed it in the for the three live
sessions this live session tomorrow and
day after tomorrow for the first three
live sessions I mentioned that I already
showed you an announcement video that
I'm expecting that students know the
basics of Python as we listed here
except SQL right so what we'll do in
this live session is as follows I have I
think five or six problems that I've
listed again I didn't know how many
problems we can cover in a two-hour live
session so I kept it slightly open-ended
let's see how many we can cover right if
you are if you are able to finish these
five six problems quickly again for
every problem I'll tell you what I'll
cover if you're able to cover these five
six problems quickly today tomorrow
we'll have more problems we'll do more
problems right so first and foremost
given a problem first understand the
problem break the problem into smaller
subproblems this is very important and
then connect the dots from the sub
problem to coding concepts that you
already know again here I'm assuming
that you already know basics of Python
programming right then I'll walk through
line by line of code wherein we are
putting everything together since this
is the first session I also want to
focus more on common errors and mistakes
okay of course I'll also focus on common
errors and mistakes in the future life
sessions also in this series but I will
focus more in this live session I also
focus a lot on reading function
references and fixing bugs so what I've
done in this live session is I have
taken simpler problems but I'm going to
spend lot of time in these issues
because even when we evaluate students
code and apply their course this is
where lot of people get stuck right this
is one of the places
a lot of people get stuck there are
other places also they get stuck but I
thought since this is the first session
I will focus on this so that once this
one's once we have this out of our way
we can focus on slightly more complex
and interesting problems okay so for
every problem that I discuss I will give
a related problem or problems for
exercise feel free to practice them if
you have time I strongly recommend you
practice them right other thing is I'll
introduce new concepts as we need if
there is some concept that is needed to
understand a bug or an error message
better
I'll introduce those concepts as we need
them I will not just do theory sessions
I want to do more hands-on sessions now
very importantly if you are a good
programmer or an experienced programmer
you may not benefit much from this
session right because you might already
know everything that is in this session
so just wanted to make that clear if you
are a good programmer maybe if the first
couple of maybe first three four
sessions you may not benefit much right
so I leave that decision to you okay
sounds good
so let's start with some simple problems
okay the problem is simple add two
randomly generated number matrices using
loops again one more very important
thing is the context all the problems we
pick will be in the context of AI and
machine learning right I'll try to pick
problems that you will or code snippets
that you will have to build as an AI
engineer or a machine learning engine at
right so first and foremost numpy is one
of the most extensively used libraries
in whole of machine learning and AI
along with pandas obviously right so
data frames along with data frames so I
thought I will focus more on numpy right
away because it's a very simple thing so
I want you to generate two numpy
matrices and add them using loops not
using the plus operator right so I will
go slow very beginning and I will speed
up again this live session I will go a
little slow so that so that everybody
can follow me even absolute beginners
can follow me but slowly I will speed up
right sounds good okay so first let's
think of this problem okay so the
problem I hope the problem definition is
clear I want you to generate two
random-number matrices and I want you to
add them using loops right you can't
just say okay you can't say I generate
one matrix a one I'll just use the plus
operator and I'll say B equals to a 1
plus a 2 this is not allowed you can't
use the plus operator on numpy matrices
right let's assume a 1 a 2 or 2 matrices
numpy matrices you can't do this you
will have to implement it using for
loops the objective here is so that you
become comfortable with writing nested
loops that's one of the objectives here
okay so let's look at the subproblems
here let's let's dumb the subproblems
the first sub problem is okay so i'll do
these things okay i'll break it into
subproblems
i'll keep solving the subproblems one by
one and I'll connect the subproblems to
coding concepts I'll do code
walkthroughs and often done mistakes and
then I'll give you an exercise write
that that's the flow first and foremost
what is the first subproblem first we
have to generate random number matrices
that's the first thing right so let's
assume I want to generate two random
number matrices a1 and a2 then I want to
add both of them using for loops I want
to add both these matrices and store the
result in B this is what I want to do
right so very simple very easy concept
okay first and foremost okay how do you
create so the first subtask here again
I'm going to describe subtasks along
with code along with common errors also
okay so first is first subtask is let's
assume I want to create matrices of size
five cross four five rows and four
columns
alright first task is create a random
matrix of size four Phi cross four if
you know the appropriate functions in
numpy great if you don't know the
appropriate functions what should you do
first Google search numpy create random
matrices I just googled this in
incognito mode and my suggestion is
always read the top four to five links
because the first link may not be the
best link always my suggestion whenever
again what is a task
what is that sub task or sub task one is
create a random matrix that's a first
subtask right or sub problem now
whatever just simply Google search numpy
create random matrices that's it
because you want to create a numpy
matrix and we want to create and the
matrices read through always when you
google search don't leave with one link
be patient read the top four or five
links I read through the top four or
five links and this was one of the good
links that I found okay let's go to this
link right so let's go to this link
let's see what they say
again all so let's copy this go here
okay okay so it says okay how to create
random make matrix of random numbers in
in Python using numpy okay so random 1d
array matrix right this is 1d array
which is like a vector right then it
says 2d matrix okay this looks right
right so what did they do first look at
this code this is very important for you
to understand right look at this code
what did they say first the important
numpy then he saying a numpy dot random
dot r and three comma four look at the
code snippet first look at the code
snippet first write three comma four and
then they are printing this random area
what did it what did did result in it
resulted in three rows and four columns
okay this seems to work please don't
just copy-paste it first and foremost
look at what does this function do NP NP
is nothing but numpy numpy random R and
it wanted this function do once you find
a link on Google first and foremost
please Google search for it and say just
type just such that and say Python okay
you get the actual reference it's very
important to read function references
because that's the best way for you to
understand these concepts it's extremely
important I can't emphasize this enough
so what did I do I said import numpy as
NP and I'm using this but please don't
copy paste code because if you just copy
paste code and not learn what's
happening internally you're just wasting
your time you're not learning anything
right so you saw this code great you you
read someone else's code but you also
should go to function reference read
what does it say look at what it says
okay this is very important to
understand okay so what does it say it
says okay random values in a given shape
okay so what are the parameter
what are the parameters of this function
and what is the return value of this
function these are two important parts
right so this function takes d0 d1 up to
BN all these are integers and they are
all are optional so you can give a bunch
of integers here right so what does it
what does it say this is nothing but the
path the dimensions of the return error
should all be positive so all these
numbers should be positive if no
argument is given a single float value
is returned right just a scalar value is
returned because a single value is like
a scalar value it's not a vector or a
matrix what is a scalar just 23 is a
scalar what is a vector a vector is like
this a vector is like an array right
again the mathematical term for it
so this is called as a scalar right this
is called as a vector or array this is
called as a matrix this is what is
called as a matrix or a 2d array right
then there is this right so then there
is a 3d array there is a 3d array which
has the depth also like this right so
this is your 2d array also called as
matrix right so this is called a 3d
array or 3d 4d arrays all of them
mathematically they are called as
tensors right again the library tensor
flow that Google open-sourced is a
tensor or it performs tensor operations
again those of you who know deep
learning will appreciate the fact that
deep learning is all about tensor
operation not matrix operations right so
I'll use the same terminology a scalar
is just a single number a vector is a 1d
array a matrix is a 2d array or 3d array
for D array 5 D arrays all of those are
tensors right so please read the
documentation here clear fully read this
line by line what does it out put it out
put an NB array
a numpy nd array with this shape
this is the shape of the array right so
you have to always understand what is
the input parameters what is the output
that dysfunction generates and
oftentimes in the reference you are also
given simple snippets of code like this
right
so please don't just google search and
copy/paste code very importantly you
should always understand the function
reference okay again if you want to read
the function reference you just have to
Google n P random R and reference I get
the link I read it okay sounds good so
okay okay so one common error that we
often observe is again you should read
what this 5 comma 4 means right so this
5 comma 4 this is the resultant array
size or resultant nd array what is this
this a 1 is an ND array it's an umpire n
dimensional array right that's what it
is that's very important to remember
right so this gives you 5 rows and 4
columns so this is basically giving your
matrix with 5 rows 1 2 3 4 5 and 4
columns that's what it is giving you
many people that we have seen in code
assignments that people actually write 4
comma 5 they swap rows and columns this
is a very common error please don't make
this error now a good habit is once you
have generated this always print it
because when you see it when you see
that the data is as you expect you are
much more convinced so what I often do
typically is I often print the data
I often print the shape of the data
sometimes even the datatype also so if
you print a 1 this is what you get what
is it it has 1 2 3 4 5 5 rows and 4
columns as we expect cool now I also
want to print the shape of a1 so I say I
just say print a1 dot shape and it
results in 5 comma 4 now there is one
error that I've seen lot of people
commit once very simple error that not
again thankfully our team which
evaluates hundreds of assignments on
daily basis has gone through a huge list
of errors and they've shared it and I am
covering some of those errors here we
see lot of students saying instead of
print a 1 dot shape a 1 is an ND array
remember what it is always remember what
is the data type a 1 is an MD Eric a 1
is an MD array let us not forget that
right so when you say a 1 dot shape okay
when you say a 1 dot shape
this thing printed this appropriately a
very common error is they actually
called they actually put the parentheses
here calling the shape function which is
there which is a shape function under MD
array some people call this the moment
you execute that what happens look at
this the moment you execute this it
gives you an error what I read does it
give it gives you a type error it says
couple object is not callable now how do
you understand an error like this look
at this it says couple object is not
callable what do you call you call
functions
remember the terminology you typically
again thankfully python gives very very
readable error messages you should look
at programming languages like c it's
much much harder to understand and
interpret the error messages thankfully
python is terrific see it says couple
object is not callable it says you can't
call this function that's what it's
saying why does it taste a couple here
let's understand that in a little while
right why does it say couple right
that's very important why does it say
couple right first and foremost the
moment you read this every error message
please read it it says couple object is
not callable which means you can't call
this function number one which means
there is no function like shape there is
no function called shape so what do you
do okay which means this is an ende
array there is nothing called shape
function inside it now how do I get
shape one option is to just Google
search just try four or five things
brute force and you'll get a solution
but a better thing always is to go
through the documentation let me go
through the documentation here okay so
okay before we go there again I'll tell
you how to fix this bug in a little
while by going through the documentation
again I started programming as I told
you from 1999 onwards right those were
the days when Google search was in its
infancy we did not have proper internet
connection to Google search Google
existed in 1999 right but it was not as
powerful and as good as it is today
number one number two it is not it was a
we didn't have internet connections
so what we would do when I remember I
learned C or C++ in 99 mm period so you
have the whole C++ reference book right
so for every major class object data
type function key words you have the
reference so we used to go through this
reference and understand why things are
not working unfortunately people stop
especially people who started
programming much later have stopped
doing it they just google search they
get four or five links they just
copy-paste it and they're done sorry
that's not how you become a good
programmer you should be extremely
comfortable reading references and
becoming a better programmer that way
right please understand that number one
okay so now if I want okay so I'll tell
you I'll tell you why there is couple
here and why is it not callable I'll
just come to that in a little while but
equally importantly I hope the life is
all okay there is no issue with the live
session somebody says can we get ipython
notebook yes you will get it by the end
of this live session I'll share it I'll
share it in a just under this in both in
the description and the first comment
section okay
I'll share it so this is the first thing
the second thing if I again as I told
you what I often do is whenever I have a
variable which I'm creating like this I
print it to visualize this I also want
to see the shape of it I also want to
see the data type so we all remember the
type function the type right we use we
learned this type when we learnt basics
of Python so we've seen people do print
a1 dot pipe then what does it say look
at this again it gives an error it's a
common error that we have seen people
commit again I'm covering some very
basic errors because this is the first
session right so a1 dot type so what
does it say there is an attribute error
the numpy dot ND array object has no
attribute called type it has no
attribute called type right so this is
the error this error message and again
explain you how to read this error
message and this error message by just
explaining it the basics of a class
object some basic stuff I just explained
you so that this is much more
interpretable I will revisit this error
and this error in a couple of minutes
but the right way
to do it is actually to say print type
of a one what does it say now it says a
one is an umpire dot NB array now very
importantly when you get errors like
this that this form this shape is not
callable the type is not is not a there
is no attribute called type first thing
you should do is read through the
attributes and methods of the numpy dot
ND array class now some of you may not
be comfortable with what is a class what
is an object and all of them let me give
you a simple analogy right suppose if
you're creating a integer variable right
suppose you're creating a variable let's
say you say x equals to 10 so what are
you doing enough what I doing enough in
Python right if you do this what again
what I doing enough you're creating a
variable you're creating a variable X
this is a variable name right this is
the value of the variable right and this
variable of course you can also say int
and all that then this will be integer
of course you can also create float
string all of those things so class is
basically a concept which came from
software engineering right so if you
look at programming languages like C
which is a very popular programming
language C is what is used as the core
programming language which which is used
for some of the most important systems
and computer science like the UNIX
kernel the UNIX the the Macintosh kernel
the Linux kernel all of them are built
in C C does not have classes there is no
concept of classes in C ok C is one of
the one of the great programming
languages then after a few years again
remember C has no classes but you can do
everything in C that you can do in other
programming languages mostly most of
them you can do it so then people said
there is this then they came up with
this concept of a class ok again this
came from software engineering because
people as they were writing more and
more complex software you just imagine
writing something like a operating
system or something like a database
engine
is not a trivial task so as people
started writing more and more complex
software software engineers came up with
the concept of a new concept called
s-class and concepts called as
object-oriented programming and
object-oriented design these are
concepts from software engineering right
now for us of course if you know a
general programming object or design
that's great but even if you don't know
this it's ok
because I'll give you a very basic 10
minute overview of this with which we
can start understanding the basics and
as we progress if you need more concepts
we'll cover more concepts as I told you
in the at the beginning we will cover
more topics as we need ok so what so in
the in our case numpy dot nd array ok
numpy dot NB array is actually a class
right so you can think of a class you
can think of a class as it again as a
role as an analogy because this is a non
object this is a non oops concepts these
are non oops concepts these are non oops
concepts right so I'll try to give you a
comparison from non oops concepts - oops
concepts so that it becomes much more
easy for you to connect the dots again
this is just a analogy this is not an
equivalence what I mean by that is what
I'm giving you is is a rule book to
which you can easily understand what's
happening just like the way this
variable is of data type integer right
suppose if I create if I look at look at
our data look at our program right so
what does that program though so let's
look at the let's look at the function
documentation right so as soon as I ran
this as soon as I ran this my NP dot
random dot R and okay if you go to the
function reference what does it return
it returns an ND array look at the
function reference it says it takes
these integers non-negative integers as
parameters or sorry it takes only
positive integers not non-negative it
takes positive integers as inputs
because it says all of them should be
positive right and it outputs an ende
array which means what is happening in
this line
this function is returning a variable of
type this class so it is returning a
variable of type numpy dot NB array just
like the way we have the data type
integer here look at this we have the
data type integer here and X is a
variable of data type integer num PI dot
nd class ND and the array is a class
right now a 1 here a 1 in our example a
sorry a 1 in our example a 1 is a
variable is a variable of type of this
class variable of this class a variable
of this class is also called as an
object of this class in object Android
programming again the whole name of
object-oriented programming came into
existence because this is this is all
about objects these are all about
classes and objects you can think of a
class like a data type right you can
think of an object like a variable of
the data type now when you have it class
a class has two important things defined
on it right a class has unlike look at
this a very one a variable you can apply
a bunch of operators you can apply a
bunch of operators on integers you can
also apply a bunch of functions on
integers right so here is where things
start differing given a class again
there is so much to cover optimal
programming is like a whole semester of
course at undergraduate level computer
science I'm trying to simplify it for
you here right so okay so just like the
way you have within a class there are
basically two parts there is something
called as attribute right so there is
something called as attributes and
methods alright so there are two parts
within a class attributes are basically
suppose you have a class within a class
think of a class as a as a holder which
holds multiple values for example
suppose one simple example is I can
create a class called a student again
this is a very simple I can create a
class called a student this
student all the information I want to
store about a student it could be his
roll number his could be his name right
it could be his let's say marks all of
these so what I'll create is all these
are attributes of this class student
right on this student I also want so all
these are called as attributes of this
student right again this roll number
could be integer name could be string
marks could be float all of that right
so he can think of a class as a holding
as as a collection you can again I'm
simplifying that a lot here you can
think of a class as a group of our set
of related attributes corresponding to
this class and a bunch of functions or
methods methods is just a different name
for functions right for example on this
student so suppose I want to have a
bunch of methods right it's a zoom on
this student I want to let's say I want
to change name suppose there is I could
have a function called changed name so
on this student I can call this function
change name change name is a function
which could have some parameter now I
can say for the class student I want to
create a variable called s1 this is an
object remember this is a class this is
a class you can think of class as a data
type right you can think of class as a
data type right and it contains all of
these attributes and all of these
methods that you can execute on this
data type and given an object right so
suppose you have s1 as an object right
s1 dot roll number so s1 is one students
information right I can store
information about the roll number of a
student in s1 of one student similarly
s2 dot name so s1 sorry similarly s1 dot
name similarly s1 dirt marks all this is
information related to one student
similarly I can create another object s2
for a different student again these
concepts came into existence to simplify
software engineering again if you see
non object-oriented languages like C the
amount of core
and the complexity of code that you have
to write is significantly more than
programming languages like C++ Java
Buyten all these languages these
languages are much more again today we
build much more software using this
because it's easier to build especially
given that sometimes hundreds of
developers jointly develop the code
right so that is the crux of it right
again I have simplified it because I
wanted to explain you these two error
messages or so we know see now you know
what is an object right so I wanted to
explain this right so what does it say
it says okay so let's look at these two
I want to explain these two error
messages in little more detail so what
does it say it says a 1 dot type right
so what the what error message does it
say numpy dot nd array object because a
1 is an object of type numpy dot nd
array it has no attribute called type I
am trying to access this attribute here
it has no attribute that's what it means
right now let's see what attributes are
there if you want to figure out what
attributes are there what methods are
there let's try to figure it out next
when I call this when I write this it
says this is not callable what does that
mean this means there is no function
called shape but then how do I get the
shape of it right look at this what was
the correct syntax here what was the
correct syntax here just a 1 dot shape
is the correct syntax right so what does
this imply now this implies that when I
do so a 1 which is an ende array has an
attribute called shape it has an
attribute called shape with which I can
get this data it does not have a method
called shape remember whenever I say a
method what I mean is a function
whenever I say an attribute it means a
variable of its specific data type
within a within a class ok so let's go
and read the function documentation
right so let's go here ok so you can
just Google such numpy dot nd array the
first link that you get is obviously the
function reference let's go and read the
function difference please remember
there is nothing that beats the skill
reading function differences okay so it
says it's a class numpy dot nd array
okay so there are a bunch of things okay
so let's go down let's go okay so look
at this it says attributes these are all
the attributes that are there look at
this look at all the attributes that are
there which we can access right shape is
an attribute and what the shape give
shape gives you a couple of integers
look at this so I am in the MP dot or
numpy dot nd array numpy dot nd array
has a bunch of attributes within the
attributes you will see the shape when I
use the shape what should I get
I should get a tuple of integers I don't
see that look at this if you go through
all these attributes you do not see you
know you do not see the attribute what
was it you do not see that attribute
type okay there is no type here right
there's T data flags in real size and by
Jen dem shape blah blah blah right so
there is no there is no type so this
error message is simply saying that a 1
which is of type numpy dot nd array it
has no attribute called type that's what
it means right number one number two
let's look at this now let's go back and
understand this in more depth so what is
this error message say it says this is
not callable which means there is no
function like this and it says the
tupple object is not callable why does
it say this because the moment it runs
this what does it get it gets a 1 the
moment it runs this a 1 dot shape it is
running this from here it's running a 1
dot shape what does a 1 dot shape return
a 1 dot shape returns a tuple a solid it
returns a couple of integers right we
printed a 1 dot shape right we got a
tuple Phi cross 4 here so if I comma 4
now on the tupple look at this the top
now what do you have what does it return
a 1 dot shape returns a tuple object
right remember a 1 dot shape returns a
tuple object now the tupple object is
not callable you can't call a tuple
object you can't you can't a tuple
object is a tuple it's not a function
you can't call it that's where the error
message here is couple of
is not callable I hope this is clear
again understanding errormsgs
understanding documentation is extremely
important I know I'm spending too much
time on just two error messages but
these are skills that will stay with you
for life trust me okay I have learned
programming like this we have seen a lot
of students learn programming like this
okay
so now this is clear okay I know I have
spent too much time on a simple concept
but it's important to understand this
concept in depth that's why I'm doing
this dive deep cold walkthroughs I'm
giving these common errors and all of
that okay so now what do we have
okay so what did we do finally we learnt
we learn to read some documentation we
also got a one which is an umpire array
of size five rows and four columns so
again let's not forget our big problem
we want to create two randomly generated
numpy matrices and add them so one we
created a 1 now similarly I can create a
2 also nothing stops me so create random
matrix a 2 simple NP dot random dot R
and Phi comma 4 remember very
importantly I should create the matrix
of the same size here because can you
add two matrices of different sizes
imagine if a 1 is 5 cross four and a 2
is 3 cross 2 can you add these two
matrices it's not a valid addition in in
mathematics it matrix algebra this is
not valid the length so the the the size
of the matrix should be the same if it
is not it will throw an error I think I
have that error somewhere I'll show you
that okay again I always print my matrix
just to be sure now another very common
thing so so what we have enough we have
both the matrices we have both the
matrices now if we want to add them
using loops okay we want to add them
using loops how do I do that look at
this I have a 5 cross 4 matrix here 1 2
3 4 always draw diagrams plus Phi cross
4 1 sorry 1 2 3 ok I think I should
address this this is Phi cross 4 right
sorry 1 2 3 4 5 ok similarly 1 2 3 4
three four okay five okay now how does
the addition work you take this element
you add with this element that becomes
the result in so let's assume B equals
to a1 plus a2 what is the logic of
addition first let us understand the
logic of simple addition in matrices
right so the first tail first row first
column first row first column you add
both of these and that becomes the first
row first column in B right now what is
what is the typical logic here the ith
row jth column in B should be a one
eighth row jth column plus a2 I trijet
column this is the concept right this is
a mathematical way of writing the same
thing where is the Y I is a bunch of
numbers corresponding to the rows J is a
bunch of numbers corresponding to the
rows so what does this say this says
that the value in the IJ cell of B is
the sum of values in the IJ cell of a1
plus the IDH cell of a - very simple
right this is the logic this is what we
all have been taught probably in an 11th
10th class this is how you add two
matrices right now we just have to put
in code now one important thing that you
are to remember here is to do this to do
this again the logic is simple
we got the logic now how do you convert
logic to code that's an extremely
important skill now first and foremost
the moment you see this you should
realize that that you should be able to
access a row jth column in a given nd
array so you have an ND array and you
want to access the cell which is an AI
trajet column how do you access it it's
simple question if you know how to
access great because if you don't know
how to do that you can't solve this
problem right so the second sub problem
is figuring that how to access the IJ
cell in each element just Google search
for an accessing a jet element in an ND
array just Google search for it this is
the link that you will get it again this
is from the official documentation sorry
sorry sorry sorry
I think I did a mistake sorry so I think
this is from the official documentation
so okay the N dimensional array
okay if you just look at this indexing
eros right so it says okay array
indexing blah blah blah so just okay so
all there is ton of stuff in this right
just go just keep just keep looking at
it right just keep going through it
because thankfully Python documentation
is so damn good where it's extremely
readable okay there is a ton of this
okay we didn't find any code here that's
okay let's see okay the array can be
indexed so if you look at again whenever
I read documentation I also look for
code snippets okay what does this say it
says I can access the first row and the
second column look at the element of X
in the second row third column namely
six is this also sorry sorry sorry shape
is this blah blah blah okay I think see
this is how this is how very said
constructing Eris indexing Eris okay and
the array indexing Eris okay array
indexing let's see array indexing okay
Andy arrays can be indexed using
standard Python this syntax right so all
you have to do here is X blah blah blah
now let's try it see there is something
given here unfortunately not much of
code but let's go back to our thing and
try a few things let's see what what
goes wrong okay so I saw this so look at
this by reading this what does it say X
and this it says okay I want to say
which row which column I want to access
that that's what this syntax tells me
again I could be lost but let me let me
start trying it okay if I want to access
let's take a one we have printed a one
earlier right we have printed a one
earlier so we know which row which
column what element is there so what
I'll do now is I'll just say print a 1 2
comma 3 this should give me second row
third column in a 1 if see when I
execute this I get some value but I want
to be really sure so let's go to a 1
second row third column 1 okay what is
the value printed here six five six
eight five two six one second six five I
hope this is printed correctly one
second when I print this a one two comma
three it print six
five six eight five two eight is that
value is it a one or a two one second
let me just print a two because we have
a two right here right so let's just
let's just run it okay so what is it
giving me it is giving me 1 0 1 2 blah
blah blah ok so what is what is it
giving me it is giving me is a give me
second row third column or third row
second column let's see that carefully
right so where is this 1 0 1 2 8 6 blah
blah blah it is it is it in second row
second row third column no it's not in
second row third column it's not in
second row third column but where is it
is it in third row A one A one one
second one second let me just see one
point two okay so this is all right this
is giving me a - this is my first row
second row third row fourth row fifth
row okay then the rows and columns are
all clear
okay let's do this also the indexing
sorry the indexing is zero zero indexing
right so anyway so let's start this I
got to confirm counting incorrectly so
zero zero so zero it throw because all
the array indexing is zero zero indexing
right I got I start counting from one
sorry my bad right so let's let's take
one zero always try it try a few things
this is first row this is what is this
one but one basically means second row
zero at row first row and first column
yes okay so let's go two comma three no
okay so what is 2 comma 3 let's write it
down here it's better to write it down
this is a zero eighth row first row
second row third row fourth row zero is
column first column second column third
column right because in Python just like
in C programming the indices start from
0 so 2 comma 3 this is 2 this is 3
perfect this is the value that is shown
here so it's working so I can access I
throw Jet column using this syntax it's
always important to be careful it's good
to experiment right a very common error
that we see people do is this ok look at
this instead of actually placing this in
in square parenthesis we have seen
people just pass it like this like a
function so what is it what is happening
here this is as if you are calling a
function with 2 comma 3
right this is not again this is the
index this is our view index how do we
know this is our index because we went
to the documentation we went to the
documentation right look at this it says
this is how I have to index again there
is one more very important aspect which
is errors between Python 2 and python 3
as you can see I'm using Python 3 here
there are some changes between Python 2
Python 3 sometimes you have to search
for Python 3 in your search also now if
you if you if you execute it like this
look at this this if you execute it like
this what happens you get an error now
what is the error read the error very
carefully thankfully Python gives
beautifully readable errors unlike C or
C++
it says numpy dot nd object because this
is a numpy and the object is not
callable you can't call this function
that's what it says so such an easy
thing by reading this error you can
quickly figure out that this is not a
function there should be some other way
of accessing it it's it's that simple a
concept now if you look at this
documentation look at this if you look
at this documentation it says in Python
X within square brackets I can give it
to Polly
remember everything in Python which are
right like this is a tuple if I write 2
comma 3 this is a tuple in Python right
so it clearly says that I can write it
like this
or I can write it like this both are
equivalent so let's also try that so
whenever you are learning a programming
language early on this is a good thing
to try ok so ok this here I've just not
put the tupple I've just put square
braces now I'll also put a I'll also put
this and if I execute it what happens it
works it works
so the error here the error here is
you're calling your your this this a 1
which is an ND array object is not
callable if you just put like this it
would have worked as we have just seen
right now that's the again always see
what is how what should you give here
you can give a tuple we have given a
couple here or you can give a comma
separated integers both of them are
equivalent
it clearly says that you can either give
a tuple here or you can give a
comma-separated list of integers this is
a very common mistake that we have seen
people commit we have seen students send
us an email for this okay of course we
resolve it but then it's such an easy
thing for them to resolve and learn
right once you learn how to fix it you
will not forget it for your life okay so
now we have learned how to access this
right so let's go back to our original
task where is the task okay this is what
we wanted to solve now we know how to
get I throw a jet column in a1 we know
we know how to get the item in I throw
jet column now okay let's just use the
default operator right I can also add 2
ND arrays using the plus operator right
I can say B equals 2 a1 plus a2 and
print this this is a very simple way of
doing it right
very very simple way of doing it but I
don't want to do it using the plus
operator I want to do it using for loops
because I want you to learn for loops
it's a very important skill to be able
to write loops because that's a very
very common construct in most
programming so for that look at this I
have a 1 I have a 1 I have a to write a
1 I comma J plus a 2 I comma J equals to
B I comma J but what should i and j be
this is what all of the valid rows look
at this a 1 has a size of 5 comma 4 or
shape shape let's not call it size let's
call it shape write a 2 also has the
shape 5 comma 4 which means this is what
0 1 2 3 4 this J is 0 1 2 3 because
these are all the columns that you have
these are all the rows that you have by
just looking at this fact this should
immediately strike you that you have to
use loops right so what is this bij
equals 2 a 1 IJ plus a 2 IJ for all I
where I is 0 1 2 3 4 for all J 0 1 2 3
that's the idea so the next sub problem
that we have to figure out is how do I
get the shape
of a1 we already learned that look at
this
what does a1 dot shape give me earlier
we saw this documentation right what
does a1 dot shape give me if you are not
sure of it just go back to documentation
what does the shape function return it
returns a couple of integers remember
always remember what it returns so what
do I do enough it returns a couple of
integers so what can I do here I can do
a very simple thing I can just say a1
dot shape and assign this to a couple
this is a couple right because it's in
it's in simple braces R and C so what is
hard enough are will take the value of
5c will take the value of 4 right
because this is a couple right again I
always write print messages to make sure
that everything is working so when I
print it I know that r is five seas for
naught we have to write at four loops
right very simple code this is not
rocket science this is trick this is
like very basic stuff now how should we
do it first look at this we have our
matrices like this right so five rows
and four columns okay first let's go to
the zero I throw first let's go through
the zero eight throw within the zero
eight throw let's go to zero eight
column first column second column third
column then let's so first let's finish
these four right then we'll go to the
second row in the sec or the first row
if you want to call it the first first
row zero eight column second call first
column second column third column and so
on so forth that you can write using a
very simple nested for loop for I equals
two range R now R is five
what does range R give me range R gives
you zero one two three four we discussed
about range I am assuming you know the
range function if you are not sure just
Google for it you didn't go and read the
documentation then you have range C
Rainsy gives you zero one two three so
now what is happening look at this the I
values initially I will be 0 right
initially I will be 0 within this I have
this within the loop so J will be 0 1 2
3 so what am i doing
bij is a 1i j + ay-two IJ this is how i
access the elements this is how i access
the first element this our axis IJ
element so by the time this loop runs my
B is 0 0 B 0 1 B 0 2 and B 0 3 are done
next I continue on the loop right now
what will be the second value here this
will be 1 again this will be 0 1 2 3 by
the time I finish this this simple for
simple nested for loop by the time I
finish this what did I get I get my B I
can print B and what do i do just to
verify I verify that this B is same as
this B
I just visually compare both of them
they are the same now there is one
optimization that you can do on top of
this I hope this is clear again I
focused a lot on how to read bugs how to
fix them this code is straightforward
right this is extremely straightforward
right so the next thing is again I think
one of our assignment problems is to
multiply two matrices using for loops
which is slightly more complicated than
this but it's also fairly easy if you
know the logic if you know how to
convert the logic to for loops as I just
showed you right I've shown you this
diagram this is how you convert the
logic to for loops that's it you're done
it's actually fairly straightforward
next there is one optimization that you
can do here look at this the B matrix
the B matrix right you have not
allocated any memory space for the B
matrix before this loop
look at this before this loop started so
what's happening here is there is more
again this is a this is an optic code
optimization again again this is a topic
in cumple in a design etc but I just
wanted to teach you a good programming
habit in general right so one thing that
you can do here is see what are you
doing here you have not assigned any
memory space for B so what's happening
is as this loop runs the size of B is
changing because more elements are being
created
look at this initially you have only B 0
1 right so at b0 0 b0 1
b02 right so on so forth then you went
and said okay B also has first row right
then you as the loop progresses this is
creating more space in the memory again
remember that everything has to be
stored in the memory in your RAM or main
memory as it is often referred to as in
computer science right so what is
happening here is the size of B is
changing within the loop and if the size
has to change in every loop right this
can create special problems if B is a
large matrix it can create problems this
can be again for this small sized
problem it may not be very very complex
but a good programming habit is to
pre-allocate matrix B so one thing that
you should do is just create matrix B
with all zeros first and we will see the
syntax first create B with zeros of size
four five I cross four and then fill it
up here that way then as soon as this
line runs there is memory allocated for
be within your RAM or main memory and
then each of these lines is changing
each of these cells within B right in
the previous model if you did not Priya
locate be the size of B is changing the
shape and size of B is changing in each
iteration which can be more cumbersome
because again that goes into compiler
design memory reallocation all those
challenges right so a good practice is
to pre-allocate B it's a good habit good
programming habit okay so in our case
suppose if I want to allocate zeros one
thing that you may have seen in our code
snippets is B equals to n p0 is 5 comma
4 you get an error what is the error no
okay look at the error this is very very
interesting error so the moment you
write this function you get an error
what is the error say data type not
understood what data type is not
understood I am saying create zeros
right the B I know has to be an ND array
that is very clear because I am using
non PI here
what data type is not understood here
this is a very common mistake by the way
data type is not understood so first
thing you should do here is let's go to
NP dot zeros and read the documentation
okay so just google search for MP dot
zeros you will get this link let's go
and read the documentation again reading
the documentation is the way you learn
now this is very important
so how does n P dot zeros work look at
this that many ways of doing it so look
at the documentation what are the
parameters here what are the parameters
the parameters the first parameter is
called the shape the shape can be an
integer or a tuple of integers it can't
be just a sequence of integers from a
couple of integers right if we want
again I can say what datatype I want to
generate but it is optional the default
value is float this is the default
parameter order this is also optional so
let's not bother about it so what is the
mistake that we have done we should be
able to understand this look at this the
fact the shape parameter can be a single
integer or if it is multiple integers it
has to be a couple that's the data type
error we are getting here look at this
that's the data type error we are
getting here the data type not
understood because the if it was only
just one number you can call it like
this if it is two numbers you should
always call it like this
look at this instead of say I have to
pass a parameter because it can either
be a single integer or a tuple of
integers right so what I have to pass
here is a couple I created a tuple and
I'm passing it as a parameter shape
parameter rest everything is optional
parameters right so whatever done here I
have pre allocated the space for B in my
main memory with all zeros this loop is
same as what we have seen earlier very
simple loop very very simple loop right
I hope this is clear again I know I have
spent almost one hour on this but I
wanted to go through the documentation
read the reference help you understand
how to fix these bugs okay number one
okay so next question for all of you
okay what is the time and space
complexity of this okay I'll go to the
light
chat window okay so what is the time and
space complexity of this can anybody
suggest me in the in the can anybody
suggest me in the in the in the chat
window what is the time and space
complexity for this algorithm that we
have written okay I hope everybody saw
the algorithm is just a simple nested
for loop what is the time complexity and
what is the space complexity sorry we
are here so is order of n square the
space complexity or the time complexity
what is n here you have to be very
precise when you say order whether it is
time or space complexity please mention
that also quadratic okay okay okay n
square and square all of you are talking
about space complexity or time
complexity please mention that order of
n time complexity Big O of n square Big
O time complexity is n time complexity
what about space complex do nobody is
talking about space complexity can
somebody tell me space complexity space
complexity is n square okay two loops so
n square not always I can show you two
loop codes which are not n square 2
loops does not always make it n square
be careful what about space nobody is
talking about space guys please tell me
what is the space complexity I'm looking
for that time most of you got it right
what about space okay space space space
order of M n okay
order of MN okay ok space is order of I
mean there is a small caveat there okay
so let me explain this so the time
complexity is obviously order of rows
comma columns because look at this this
is you have our rows and C columns okay
it's as simple as that right it's just a
two for loops you are going through all
da all the rows all the columns again
just don't fall for
I can write code with two for loops
which are which is not which is not
order of which is not order of are in to
see again if you assume that R equals to
C equals to n this is same as order of n
square fair enough
what about space complexity that's a
tricky part so this is true this is this
is trivial Rose comma columns what about
space so when you compute space
complexity you should not compute the
input space and the output space because
you can't escape input and output so for
this for this system a 1 and a 2 are
input right this is the input to this
matrix addition algorithm B is the
output so you should not include input
output space complexities apart from a 1
a 2 and B what are the variables that we
create we created I we created J we
created our and C just a constant number
of variables so the space complexity for
this is actually order of 1 which means
constant it is not dependent on the
number of rows and columns right this is
a small tricky that's why I ask you
space complexity specifically it's a
very simple concept the space complexity
is constant because you are not using
any see that's what I told you right
you should not count input space and
output space because whatever algorithm
you have the input space is always
needed now output space is always needed
apart from input and output what
additional space are you using only for
a bunch of constant number of variables
that's it
right hence because this is constant
number of variables it is order of 1
right so that's a slight tricky part
there now I want to give you a simple
algorithm simple extension intentionally
I kept it simple
ok the exercise that I want you to try
again this should not take you more than
10 minutes I mean you can write it in 10
minutes actually ok
add two randomly generated numpy 3d
matrices again anything above 2d
matrix is called as a tensor 3d matrices
for D matrices all of them are called
tensors again add two randomly generated
number three D matrices using loops
again it's it's fairly simple concept be
a throw jet column kate ijk sell is a 1i
JK plus a2 ijk simple concept very
simple now let's go to the next problem
okay again I'll keep telling you errors
and mistakes but I hope we can solve the
second problem faster okay
so the second problem here is find if a
given 2d point is inside or outside a
circle there's a second problem think
about it it's a simple problem again
again this problem is very relevant to
the context of machine learning data
science etcetera because in machine
learning and data science you always
work with lines planes hyper planes
whether something is on this side of the
hyperplane this side of the hyperplane
you work with you work with rectangles
hyper rectangles hypercube IDEs etc you
work with circles spheres again linear
algebra is all about the study of these
shapes and these shapes are extremely
critical to whole of machine learning
and deep learning right so okay so given
a 2d point I'm giving a very simple
example given a 2d point find if it is
inside or outside a circle this is the
question open-ended question so my first
question here is how do you represent a
circle to represent a circle again this
is a 2d space you can represent a circle
by the center the center has
x-coordinate and y-coordinate right you
can represent a circle using the center
and a radius so you can represent a
circle using the simplest representation
of a circle is just using three numbers
in a 2d space I am only talking about
the 2d space in a 3d space the
equivalent is a sphere in 4d 5d 10 to
100 it's a hyper sphere we discussed
that in our linear algebra videos in our
course I think some of them are also
free for everyone to watch okay so you
can represent a circle using the center
and the radius now given this if I have
a point so let's assume there is a point
let's
called the point SP how do you represent
a point in 2d space the x-coordinate and
the y-coordinate right suppose if there
is a point here okay which is px comma P
might suppose that there is a point here
you just need two coordinates x
coordinate and y coordinate now when do
you say that this point is inside the
circle when do you say this point is
outside the circle very simple this is
this is almost like high school
mathematics I intentionally gave simple
problem here again I'm starting with
simple problems but I'll go to more
complex ones will do permutations
combinations all of that by the end of
this I don't think I think we'll run out
of time but anyway we are not short on
time thanks to thanks to the log down or
whatever we will continue wherever we I
will not rush I want to go slow and
steady so that everybody is with me okay
suppose if the point is here how do you
determine this very simple question so
let me see what you guys think of in the
in a chat window okay
somebody says find the distance of a
point from Center okay then then what
should I do
then what should I do this is a very
simple question okay I find the distance
of the point from X square plus y square
is less than R square no no no no no no
no this won't work now
why would that work come on I let me
construct a counter example for you no
no that won't work
come on guys that won't work let me show
you suppose if I have a circle like this
let us assume this is zero comma zero
let me just construct an example so you
said X px square plus py square is less
than equal to R square this is what you
said no but not necessary not
necessarily always so let us assume this
is let's say minus 100 common undred
minus hundred minus 100 H am the radius
is 10 and I have a point here right this
point is let's say this point is let us
say some minus values right this is not
true this again we can construct an
example and show that that's not true
some more detail
ha distance between the two points what
two points somebody's saying distance
between the point is more than the
radius distance from which point to what
point just be be very precise in your
answer folks please huh somebody wrote
it very well good so let me show this
square root of P X minus X C square P Y
minus C Y square is less than R cool
this is good this is the right way
very good so the idea is simple okay the
idea is very very simple suppose if this
is my circle right so this is my Center
C X comma C Y this is my radius all so
if this is my point P X comma py I just
have to compute this distance if this
distance let's call it B if this
distance B is less than R then it is
inside if this distance is equal to R
then this is on this is inside right if
this distance is greater than R it is
outside simple so all I have to compute
here is this distance what is this
distance like this is like simple stuff
that we learn distance between two
points see X minus px squared plus CY
minus py squared the square root that's
all this is your D so all you have to do
now is compute the D and do a simple
offense that's all there is right ok
I'll tell you typical code errors that
happen very simple problem this is
extremely simple right I mean extremely
simple but I'll show you code errors the
people that let very common to commit
very common errors to commit right aha
good good good good good so first and
foremost okay so input circle parameters
what is their sub first task first task
so we got the logic we got the logic
let's translate the logic to code first
task is to input CX CY our second is to
compute P XP is to input P X py from the
user then compute the distance then if
else of the
that's all there are four parts to it
four sub parts very simple problem now
let's go here this is where the fun
starts
okay the coding the coding nightmare
sometimes done so in imagine if you
forgot how to input multiple multiple
inputs in a single line you can just
google search for it input multiple
values Python you get a nice link from
geeks for geeks you saw that code you
pasted it here so what did you say you
said print enter CXC why are you are
using a raw input you can use input or
raw input there are two functions right
again if you go again I just Google
search for it I got this link whatever
was there I just pasted it here not
split but as usual whatever what
what does after I split this is the code
that I got from here I didn't understand
what it's doing but I know that split
does a split of a string given a string
it splits by the delimiter this function
I know a little about right first again
whenever you see code from anywhere
please understand what's happening the
split basically takes a string and
splits it by a delimiter like a space we
know that you can Google's again we've
discussed this in the course videos what
does raw input to do again if you're not
sure always google search and read the
documentation so just write Python 3 raw
input ok so Python 3 raw input ok there
is something ok can we get the
documentation I think that's better
reference Python raw input ok ok this
function is removed from Python 3 I
thought I was using Python 3 I clearly
mentioned that I want to use Python 3 is
it using Python 3 or python 2 still or
maybe this is still using Python 2 I
hope again I'll have to cross check that
I kept I might my default is python 2
but i wanted to write in python 3 again
there could be some errors because of
the versioning in python just be careful
but anyway let's redraw input let's see
what does it do ok block this python
input okay so this is python input
python raw input right
so actually python raw input function is
report removed from python 3 version ok
but it exists in python 2
actually it's the same functionality as
Python input okay cool we know what it
does it seems it's removed from Python 3
which means most likely I'm running this
in Python 2 ok even though I have Python
3 set here I'll have to cross-check my
system settings I'll do that in the next
by the next live session right anyway
raw input works very similar to input we
have seen the input function in our
course videos we know what it is right
ok
now the moment I do this I get an error
let's read what the error is ok when I
try to run it ok this is where things go
crazy I try to run it
ok Ryeon put dot split let me run it
actually for you ok so let's say you my
type 1.0 1.0 5.0 ok I run it and then
also it's taking it so no problem no
error here cool
it's taking the values so no issue for
me cool this is good so I think I think
it is just the Python version I think I
was earlier running in Python 3 it was
not working Python 2 no probably just I
I restarted my hi Python notebook just
before the live session I think this is
some issue fine it's working cool so
what is happening here oh but there is a
problem when I print CX c yr look at
this this very interesting ok so most
likely I'm running Python do if I'm not
wrong again we can check that ok
actually let's just check that ok so I
don't remember the function python
version print okay get the python
version how do I just say blah blah blah
Princesses version blah blah blah ok
that's good that's it
ok import sis prints this version okay
let me just okay this is basically all
the system commands let me just try
what's happening insert cell above I
want to see what is what is actually
happening oh it's running 2.7 yes that's
a problem okay I think okay sorry sorry
for the mistake
I'm still running Python 2.7 not Python
3 so in from the next live session I'll
ensure it's all Python 3 code ok sorry
for that yeah but that's ok so because I
got an error last time I ran I think
some mistake in my ipython notebook
setup but that's ok so I ran this what
the error that I am getting also I
actually got some error in Python 3 then
I went to something else I tried a
couple of things ok ok but let's keep
one thing in mind so what it is doing
it's actually reading the whole input as
a string and it is splitting the string
look at this what did I input here let's
let's run this again ok so 1.0 1.0 5.0
ok I this is this is the input that I've
given so whatever I have given it is
taking it as a string and it is then
splitting it how does the split function
work split function basically splits by
delimiter so I gave 1.0 space 2.0 space
5.0 so it it used this as a delimiter it
made CX equals to 1 point 0 see y equals
to 2 point 0 radius equals to 5 point 0
but it is not treating them as as floats
it is treating them as strings and look
at this it is treating them as strings
because the split function returns
strings again you can verify that the
split function the split function Python
reference ok so ok w3schools bla bla bla
okay I offer the official documentation
split ok string dot split ok the string
dot split it uses a default separator
bla bla bla bla bla return a list of
words in a string it returns the list of
words so it's going to return a list of
strings because a word is a string right
so what I have no West are basically
strings not float that's something I do
be careful about again while I was
trying little earlier with Python 3 not
with Python 2 I faced a slightly
different issue this was not working it
gave me an error because raw input was
not available in Python 3 right so it
was not available so I had to go back to
using simple input so again please note
that this will work in Python 2 but not
in Python 3 in Python 3 raw input is not
available unfortunately I am running in
Python 2.7
as we just saw right now always be
careful with the version because there
are some major changes micro input
doesn't work right so there are there
are a bunch of important differences
between Python 2 & 3 just be careful
just google search carefully so then I
googled such 2 for the same line I got a
bunch of tutorials I went through them
always try multiple approaches but this
is clear raw input what I what I saw in
these geeks would geeks article was not
working earlier because it's not Python
3 in Python 3 we know that raw input
doesn't exist so I just used input now
when I use input in Python 3 I got this
error now I saw ok I said what is wrong
with this something is wrong with this
ok
so initially initially I got I got some
error then I said ok is there some error
somewhere here III think I think I
jumped between Python to Python 3 all of
that stuff right so finally I got it to
work using raw input itself which is
available in Python 2 but not in Python
3 ok the catch here is after I print
this remember after I print CXC why are
the first thing that I realized is that
these are actually floats
so these are actually strings but it did
not care about it I just said I didn't
notice it I didn't notice these it's
very common mistake that people do the
datatype mistakes it's a TK let's go
with it I thought they were never I
forgot to notice this carefully right I
thought they were floats but cool second
thing
let's input a point takes point 5 we
input it again raw input Python 2 works
well if you notice carefully these are
also strings not floats then I simply
wrote this logic I simply said what is
my D my distance is CX minus px squared
this double star basically means power
off CY minus py squared this is my
distance of course I should also put a
square root which I did not put there is
a mistake there I know it just bear with
me then I said print d if d is less than
this P in C point in circle otherwise
point not in circle but before it even
went anywhere it gave me an error
it said unsupported Opera
types for Strings so it said I can't say
operate operand types for subtraction
sub you can't do subtraction on strings
that's what it means it is an
unsupported operands so the operator
here is - the operands are C X and px I
can't use string operands on a -
operator I can't do that that's what
it's such as it's so clearly said then I
realized okay there is a problem here
then again very common mistake people
forget to put the under loop here okay I
wanted to point that out so I corrected
that so I said okay CX c yr PX py let's
convert all of them to float
I'm typecasting them to float then I
import math because square root is there
in math I compute my distance I print it
I say if B is less than R P is in circle
else P is not in circle I computed the
distance okay this is one of the values
that I entered zero zero one I think
that's sorry am I the values that I
entered are my circle is zero comma zero
as the center and the radius is 5 and my
point is 1 comma 1 right my point is 1
comma 1 if the point is 1 comma 1 the
distance from 0 comma 0 is square root 2
and this is square root 2 so everything
is working well my P is in C cool very
simple again it is the reason I picked
this problem is because of the common
errors in how do you input into version
2 and version 3 and again this is a very
simple problem this is actually like
five minutes problem right but it's
impossible it's important to the the
major takeaway from this example is that
the logic is simple but you can get
caught up in these raw input input type
of bugs number one right and typecasting
is an important thing if you are
performing mathematical operations just
please be careful you don't miss that I
have an exercise problem corresponding
to this the exercise problem here is
find if a point is inside or outside a
rectangle that's the problem
I hope it is clear so you have you're
given a rectangle and you have to
determine you are given a rectangle R
and given a point P you have to
determine whether P is an R or not again
this is very very important for machine
learning and data science because
rectangle in 2d becomes a cuboid in 3d
and it becomes a hypercube oide in
higher dimensional spaces and that is
extremely important in the context of
decision trees etc right can you
determine whether a point is within a
rectangle now the big question here is
you know how to represent a point using
its x-coordinate and y-coordinate this
is 2d space we're only talking to these
space guys I'm not complicating it for
you we'll do that when we learn when you
do linear algebra I'll go to 3d 4d I'll
go to hypercube voyage and all of that
now I'd wanted to keep it simple my
question to all of you is how do you
represent a rectangle I want to hear
your thoughts the question is clear
right how do you represent a rectangle
somebody said to use ml for input yes so
what happens is the difference between
raw input and input if you read it
actually I place that link here I forgot
to go through that there is a very nice
stackoverflow link because I got this
error when I was using Python 3 ok so I
got this error ok let me also show you
so I got this error right a very good
point thank you for reminding me so I
got this error so what did I do and I
got this error I couldn't understand it
in Python 3 when I run this I got this
error so I entered 0.0 0.0 5 point 0
input function everything should work
it says syntax error invalid syntax I'm
like told this is simple I mean I don't
find any bug in the syntax right these
are the 3 out these are the values that
my input will split and give me cool my
input function has a string that I can
call this string will be shown here this
is simple I am calling split on it this
is a string split everything should work
it gave me invalid syntax error actually
when I tried it with Python
three I didn't understand it to be
honest with you I was trying multiple
things to show you multiple cases and
the moment I saw this I was like what is
wrong here I don't understand anything
that is wrong here then I said okay
let's Google search okay I just googled
syntax error invalid syntax on input
function Python 3 string because this
this give me invalid syntax string right
it's on string so I used all the
keywords I said I am using Python 3 this
is on a string the error is syntax error
invalid syntax i google-searched for it
stackoverflow anyway that's the best
place to find them to find resolutions
to bugs so I saw this on Stack Overflow
let me walk you through this ok so
someone else had a similar problem blah
blah blah so this guy actually writes a
very nice answer various answer here ok
so he says input is equal to a value of
raw input the error you saw was Python
tried to evaluate this expression Python
was trying to evaluate this expression
and it failed because this is not a
valid expression in Python right three
space five space two is not a valid
expression right so input is equivalent
this of this is a very nice answer I
love this answer right I forgot to
mention this so I got stuck Python 2.7
Python 3 in all of that junk jet and
confusion because I couldn't understand
what the heck was happening here then I
said PK let's go here i google-searched
for it I got this so the moment I read
this I understood ok whatever raw input
is getting it is then evaluated and then
input is equal to this whole thing so
when I say input what's happening here
is a value of raw input that's what is
happening which means whatever the input
function is reading whatever string I am
reading it is trying to the Python is
trying to evaluate this strainer a
problem here is this string can't be
evaluated the string is not a valid
expression right then I said ok then I
said I don't want the eval so how do I
get rid of the eval the simplest way I
get rid of the eval is by using raw
input instead of using because when I
use a raw input there is no
it's not evaluating whatever input it is
getting so instead of using input I used
raw input and it worked for me but I
understood why it is working remember
your objective is not just to Google
search find some code paste it fix it
your job is also to understand why
something is working and not working
that's the only way you become a better
programmer in the long run right thank
thankfully somebody mentioned this in
the comment section actually I meant I
have got this but because of the whole
Python 3 Python to mix up I think we
missed some of that the the notebook
that I share I share with the with
Python 3 okay sounds good so this is
cool this is a result okay let's go back
to the question that we have how do we
represent how do we represent a
rectangle I want to see some of this
okay how do we first first before we go
how do we represent a rectangle that's
my question how do we represent a
rectangle let me see range the somebody
says you will check x1 x2 y1 y2 what are
x1 x2 y1 y2 that's that's how do you
represent this oh there are also other
ways Chinn my very good I'm happy you
said this you can use the map with float
so what this does this is very nice this
is a very nice thing that he pointed out
so you can also you can also use
the map function so what this does
that's a very nice thing that Jim I put
here it's a very nice thing so what he
wrote here let me write it for you he
wrote for the previous problem ok for
the previous problem he wrote map so
you're going to map with float let me
see the exact syntax input split okay
cool so input split so what this does
again I'm assuming that you guys know
what map is this is also very nice way
of doing it so you get the input or raw
input whatever you want you split it
then what do you get you basically get a
you basically get a list of words on
these list of words on this list of
words you want to apply the float
function or the float data type can
version right it is all about the float
function on each of these entries when
you want to execute this on each of the
entries here instead of writing a big
for loop you can just use the map
function this will give you basically
enough the float values instead of
giving you string values it is also a
nice way this is a good way of doing it
good thanks thanks Chennai for pointing
that out it was a good one
so okay how do we represent how do we
represent let's go back to the problem
at hand how do we represent the
rectangle what is the simplest way to
represent the many ways my parallel
lines okay for coordinates using what
somebody says I just need four
coordinates okay can we so one way is
okay let's go let's go through each of
this right so one way is line 1 line 2
line 3 line four
the problem with that representation
here is look at this line 1 line 2 line
3 line 4 so to determine whether this
point is within the line within this
rectangle or not I have to determine
that for this line 1 it is on the right
side for this line 2 it is on the left
side for this line 3 it is bottom for
this line 4 it is stopp'd which is much
more cumbersome can you do something
much more simpler can you do something
simpler than this so somebody said
somebody the someone else said we'll
just use the for coordinates right so
the coordinates here the coordinates
here the two coordinates the XY
coordinates the XY coordinates here the
XY coordinates here the XY coordinates
here this certainly possible you here
you have eight numbers but we know that
it's a rectangle right which means we
know that this is perpendicular this is
perpendicular we know that do you
actually need all the eight or
coordinates of all the four points can
you be done with only two points do you
really need all the all these eight
numbers here two coordinates for each of
the points can we do it with something
lesser than that two diagonals cool
that's good that's it so imagine if I if
I just have top left corner and bottom
right corner it's a very simple problem
let's suppose imagine if I have this is
a top x-coordinate top y-coordinate top
left right this
is bottom X bottom while just four
coordinates because when I have the four
coordinates these coordinates have to be
very well behaved the way I want because
it's a rectangle it's not a trapezoid
it's a rectangle right so if I have a
point here px comma py now what is my
rule system say it's all that I have to
say no here is I have to ensure that the
P X is greater than px and px is less
than B X then this point because that's
1 the second thing that I have to insure
here is that this py is less than T Y
and it is greater than B money so it is
greater than B Y it is less than T Y
because it has to be below this line
right this has to be greater than this
it has to be less than this that's it
for checks you are done right so the
simplest way to represent a rectangle is
by just using two extreme diagonal
coordinates and by just using greater
than less than concepts you can simply
check whether a point is within the
rectangle or outside the rectangle right
so very simple
yeah somebody wrote the code thankfully
it's a simple thing I'm sure you can
figure it out that's the assignment
problem right so please please take it
up and do it next thing
one of the biggest errors we see I don't
think we have half an hour right I have
like tons of stuff to cover anyway let's
not jump let's not be in a hurry
let's just go smooth because we have a
session tomorrow right we can do as many
sessions as we want ok so ok the next
thing that I want to run through is one
of the most common mistakes that we see
let me just give me a minute break I
just want to drink some water
ok so very common mistake we see because
numpy ND arrays are used extensively
throughout machine learning deep
learning all of that stuff even
tensorflow all of these guys use it we
see simple manipulation of operations
being messed up this is one of the most
common error messages that students
encounter
and student send us an email saying I
got stuck here but this is very simple
if you are careful right numpy
manipulations are extremely simple let's
start with something the first type of
operations where we see lot of errors
are reshaped reshaping matrices right
there are there are ok there there are
these three operations where we see lot
of errors reshape extact V stack okay
these are the three errors that we see
like I mean we see every day at least 5
or 10 emails with just these errors
literally just with these just with
these three errors I think even more
than 10 emails forget 5 then I think
more just these 3 errors is like 10
easily 10 plus emails every day for us
right that's why I wanted to go through
it so that I mean I can see that many
people are making these mistakes right
so again we have talked to some of our
students this is where they get errors
they get stuck all of that so I wanted
to go through these first let's focus on
green shape okay let's take a matrix a
ok I'll show you some examples again
very importantly we will go through
documentation there is no escaping going
through documentation please understand
that okay so I'm creating a matrix right
this is five rows four columns we know
how to do it I'm printing this this is
my this thing now if I want to convert
this so first task that I want to do is
this is a Phi cross for my a is a five
rows is a five rows 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 5 rows
four columns this is my matrix it's a
five cross four matrix first I want to
convert this into an Eric I want to
convert this into again remember that
this is a 2d array all this all these
are n DRS all these are numpy RS right I
want to convert this into so I want to
convert a matrix to a vector we do this
so much in deep learning we do this like
in so many places converting a matrix
into a vector very common operation
right now when you want so how many
values are there there are 20 values
here let's just say 1 2 3
four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah okay suppose if
I want to do it how can i how can I
convert this I've discussed this in the
course videos a row major column major
order all of that stuff very simple
concepts right so one one thing that I
want to do is first I want to reshape
this into a vector remember the first
task is given a matrix I want to reshape
it to a vector when I say vector it
means just one row and 20 columns this
is a vector for me again this is a row
vector I can also create a column vector
right let's talk about row vectors in
this context again we'll discuss row
vectors column vectors when you do some
problems and some code examples with
linear algebra right
first and foremost okay reshape okay the
moment before you use reshape first you
should read the documentation it's a
beautifully written documentation I've
pasted it here so whenever you have a
problem with reshape please read what it
is okay so numpy dot reshape it's
lengthy but please be patient reading
this will save you lots of time first
first input is an array and and the
array that you have to reshape okay the
second is the shape that you want the
new shape that you want it could be an
integer or if you want it it could be a
couple of integers suppose if I want my
cross 4 array into just a array of
matrix if I cross 4 matrix into an array
of size 20 right 1d array I can just
give an integer here but if I want to
convert 5 cross 4 into 2 cross 10 matrix
look at the 20 elements here they're
also 20 elements here so I should be
able to convert it if I want to do this
this 2 comma 10 should be passed as a
couple of integers that's important
that's what it says again you can read
this whole thing there is a special case
also here very interesting special case
read it you have to read it there is no
escaping that fact okay the new shape
should be compatible with the original
shape what does that mean five cross
four can become two cross
but can fight cross four become six
cross three no there are twenty elements
here there are eighteen elements here
that's what this means if an integer
then the result if you just give one
integer like twenty here the result will
be a 1d array of that length very simple
to understand right one shape dimension
can be minus one this is a very
important thing suppose if I have five
cross four and imagine because if I want
to convert this into to cross ten let's
say you might want to do that
what can I do I can give the shape as I
can give the shape parameter as 2 comma
10 I can give this tuple it's a couple
of integers this is one way or I can say
2 comma minus 1 when I say 2 comma minus
1 the 2 is fixed whenever I give an egg
it
what does minus 1 mean it means that it
means it's illogical how can dimension
to be negative so what minus 1 here
means is okay in this case the value is
inferred from the length of the array
and remaining dimensions if this is
minus 1 this value will be inferred
based on what this shouldn't be we are
not explicitly giving it there are 20
elements here if I have 2 rows how many
columns should I have here I should have
10 columns now if you give minus 1
Python or numpy internally resolve that
this should be done it resolves it
without you having to explicitly write
that so whether you write 2 comma 10 or
2 comma minus 1 it is the same thing
again I'll show you examples of all of
them let's go through the examples again
you can use CF a/c basically means row
major order F basically means column
major order again Fortran like order
photon like order is nothing but column
major order C like order basically means
row major order I'll revise this
concepts right now right what does it
return it returns a reshaped nd array
this is clear reading documentation is
super duper important so let's go and do
lot of examples now ok so this is my
array so what am I doing here I'm saying
print and P dot reshape I want to
reshape a because I want to convert the
5 cross 4 look at this I want to
convert the fight cross for to r1 cross
21 cross 20 is basically an array of 20
elements I don't have to give one cross
20 I can just give one integer because
it will create a 1d array as a
documentation says the documentation
says that clearly right if you just give
one integer where where does it say okay
one shape dimension or sorry it's here
if an integer is given the result will
be an 1d array of that length it clearly
says that right so what do I do I just
give it a 20 see see here you can read
the documentation gives you row major
order because C programming language
uses row major order if you give F you
get 4 tron-like or column major order
let me explain what - Oh major column
major as a quick recap so when I do this
look at this I print it I always print
right so what do I get
what is my first again this is just one
array remember this is just one array
there is no there is no this notation is
not there square braces within square
braces is not there just one square
braces okay be careful now first I get
this value then I get this value keep
noticing this value is same as this
value this value same as this value then
I get this value then I get this value
then I get this value then I get this so
what's happening what is row major order
first I process the first row add the
first row here then the second row add
it here right then the third row then
the fourth row then the fifth row that
is what is called as a row major order
it simple very simple no issues now if I
want column major order let's look at
this is my a if I want to call a major
order we just read the documentation
right it says you just say Fortran like
representation or column major order but
you do a column major order what happens
it will read this followed by this
followed by this followed by this you
can see the numbers here first is 1 4 8
next is 7 6 3 7 6 3 is the next in the
same column first it is doing the first
column second column third column so on
so forth this is one way good very easy
now okay so I have transformed my Phi
cross four matrix into a 1d array now if
I want to do it as to me Eric let's see
so if I want to do 5 cross 4 into 4
cross 5 how can I represent four cross
five there are two ways of doing it I
just showed you right one way is to
represent it as a couple we have seen
people who do not represent it as a
couple so we have seen people who also
put it in square braces we have seen
people who put it in curly braces no how
do you represent a couple you represent
a couple using simple parentheses the
documentation documentation is God as
far as code is concerned documentation
is the truth okay it's your Bible Gita
Quran whatever you call it right it's
your absolute truth okay
so that's one thing so I can write it
for five I can also write it for comma
minus one as I just showed you when I do
four come so Phi cross four I am writing
it as four comma one so the four comma
minus one then what does it do
for there are twenty cells here there
are twenty values for is fixed which
means this will be five it will
automatically interpret that so look at
this I wrote four comma five explicitly
four comma minus one both the results
are the same just want to show you that
right the next one if I want to reshape
look at me look at the other way the
other way is also very interesting so I
can use the minus one you just like the
way see I have five cross four I have
written four comma minus one this worked
this is equivalent to 4 comma 5 the
other way of writing it is what if I
wrote minus 1 comma 5 what happens
whatever dimension is there it will keep
it the same right whatever this
dimension it will keep the same the
other dimension it will try to interpret
this is 20 cells here 5 here so this
should be 4 so 4 comma minus 1 is same
as minus 1 comma 5 here okay this is a
both are equivalent you can look at the
results also they're exactly the same
now let's do one more thing okay so I
have 4 cross 5 let me try to reshape
this my air remember my a is all is 4
cross 5 sorry Phi cross 4 I'm sorry my a
is Phi cross 4 I am trying to convert
this into four cross six this should
give an error obvious it will give an
error it gives me a value error and it
says cannot reshape an array size 20
into shape for
six very clear message don't worry about
all of this this is so clearly written
this is all the internal functions that
python has a problem with right this is
actually C syntax pyc basically means
the C file in which these things are
running and things like that right very
simple nothing fancy
now I want you to do a thing okay so as
a simple exercise again reshaping is a
very simple function we see lot of
people doing mistakes either because of
the minus one confusion I mean that's a
very common confusion or the
incompatibility very common mistakes and
instead of using C using F instead of
using F using see all of those mistakes
okay just be careful now the exercise
problem that I have for all of you is
very simple very simple problem okay the
problem here is take a tensor of size
four cross five cross six again I'm not
saying an array this is a three
dimensional array
it's a tensor and convert it into a
convert it as a look at this and convert
it okay so due to two things okay so I
have a tensor of size five cross four
cross six first convert it into a 1d
vector convert into a vector that is
first asked convert into a take convert
the tensor I think I think there's a
small typo here I should correct it take
the tensor convert it into a vector
first okay just one D 1d array then also
convert into a matrix a 2d array how
many values are there four into five 20
into 6 is 120 cells are there so I can
always convert a 3d again this is a 3d
array or a tensor I want you to convert
into a 10 cross 12 again generate a
random tensor of 4 cross Phi cross 6
should be simple convert into a 1d
vector should be one line code convert
into a 2d a 2d matrix of size 10 cross
12 very simple this is one very common
error the second thing is packing now
let me show you stacking and how I get
I think we'll finish stacking and then
yeah I think we can finish stacking 3d
tensors yeah so problem four and five
are very interesting problems we'll
discuss them tomorrow okay so three
let's finish it because anyway we are at
it okay so the next thing this is a very
common error again
okay so next is packing so let let's
look at stacking again we explained this
in the course videos but let's take a
very common mistake I know a lot of
people come in this mistake right so
let's assume I have a matrix a which is
of size five cross four I have a matrix
B of size five cross two right remember
a is five cross four okay so five rows
let's let's five rows and four columns
okay this is your a your be here is five
rows ding-ding and two columns simple
okay this is 5 cos 4 this is 5 cross 2
simple good I just predicted them five
cross four five cross too
now if you want okay so very common
problem that people commit very common
mistake that people commit is if I want
to create a matrix see look at this I
want to create a matrix see wherein I am
joining this matrix with this matrix
look at this this and this I can I can
actually pull these two I can pull this
I can pull this and combine them because
there are five columns here there are
also five columns here so these five
columns will match with these five
columns so if I pull this towards this
and if I pull this towards this they
both will form a coherent structure
right now if I try to do the other way
okay so this is what is called as
horizontal stacking because what are we
doing here this is what is called as
horizontal stacking because I'm moving
this horizontally I am moving this
horizontal and concatenating them
actually I'm actually concatenating them
literally but concatenating them by
stacking them horizontally right so how
do I do that so there is a function
called H stack okay again have done
mistakes intentionally okay so okay so
this concept is clear right you
understood that I can horizontally
concatenate them can i concatenate them
vertically think about it suppose if I
have this can it take this and place it
under this if I try to place this under
this what will happen it will create
this one it will create one two three
four I can't combine both of them what
happens to these cells what is the
resultant matrix size so I can't
vertically stack this is called vertical
stacking because I'm stacking be under a
vertically I was trying to stack them so
a and B I can't vertically stack them I
can't have me stack there is a function
called V stack also there is H stack so
if you look at these dimensions it is
very clear that you can horizontally
combine them or stack them but you can't
vertically stack them okay let's look at
the problem mistakes that most people
come into okay okay this is a very
common thing that we see n P dot H stack
a comma B C equals to that printed okay
now look at this first thing the error
is so beautiful the error says extract
takes exactly one argument to are given
that's why I can't work first thing you
should do in such a case is read the
documentation for H stack its stack
numpy that's it just step it stack numpy
so what does it say let's look at the
documentation right it says what is the
first it says okay numpy toward edge
stack the parameter is called tup what
is tup tup is a sequence of nd arrays
it's a tuple right it's basically a
tuple tup the name itself says that it's
a tuple so what should work here look at
this instead of this what I should pass
is the parameter I am passing two
parameters here it takes exactly one
argument or one parameter I am giving
two that's the error so just go to the
documentation it says you have to pass a
couple just concatenate these two and
pass it up you're done look a look at
what it has done these first four
columns are from a these second two
columns are from B this is your a this
is your B your a and B have been
combined horizontally or stacked
horizontally works beautifully then very
common mistakes right okay
you should always look at what is the
function argument type read the
documentation see what it is it takes
less than 10 seconds to fix some of
these bugs if you are careful of course
you become good at it over time
okay I could do it probably in 10
seconds you might take two minutes but
two minutes that's all okay so now let's
go here Nega again I created two
matrices no 5 comma 4 and 4 comma 4 look
at this so I have 5 comma 4 a B is 4
comma 4 can I can I stack these think
about it where 5 rows here okay so there
are 5 rows 1 2 3 4 ok the 5 rows and 4
columns what is Big B is 4 rows and 4
columns can i horizontally stack them if
I try to horizontally stack these two
will align okay let me change the color
here these two will align these two will
align these two will align these two
will align what will this align with
nothing there is nothing to align with
right so if I try to extract this if I
try to H stack it gives you an error I
print a I print B see it will give me an
error
what error does it give let's read it
all the input dimensions except the
concatenation dimension must exactly
match in our case they are not matching
look at this these two should match so
except the copies what are we
concatenating on so if this was 5 cross
4 or 5 cross 10 whatever it is if
they're not matching that's a problem
and you can see it by just drawing it so
H stack doesn't work here and gives this
errors this is a very common error now
instead of H stack what if we do we
stack on this okay look at this
so these are the two ones I am NOT able
to H stack but can I V stack this okay
let me draw this okay so 4 cross 4 if I
place 4 cross 4 here how does it look
okay 4 rows and 4 columns this is your a
this is your B I can comfortably
vertically stacked them so V stack is
okay H stack is not okay
why is V stack
the columns are matching perfectly for
every column there is a corresponding
column here so when I do we stack
everything works simple always again for
V stack also you have to ensure that the
arguments are given as a as a as a tuple
not a comma B outside if you don't have
these parentheses it will give the error
again let me just remove that and show
you you run this it will give an error
exactly one argument two are given same
error that we saw a while ago right so
just be careful with those errors okay
so this should work now the fun part is
what happens with 3d with Tori it's very
simple with 3d things go crazy this is
where we see some errors also especially
in deep learning okay how do you
interpret a again 2d is very simple to
visualize what happens with 3d actually
when do you use 3d in machine learning
so if you have an image right an image
is basically a bunch of pixels right our
image is basically a bunch of pixels
that's what an images right an image is
basically a bunch of pixels for each
pixel to represent color you require
three colors red green blue right so
what your image is basically a bunch of
pixels this is your height of the image
this is your width of the image in
pixels but for every pixel there are
three values there is RGB and we
represent that with a tensor like this
we represent with the tensor and how do
we represent that it's very ingenious
actually the way we represent it is for
each cell this is a cell right I have
actually three values here if you think
I have three values corresponding to
this cell the first value is the red
value the second is the green value the
third is a blue value so this is how
images are represented as tensors you
have the height so this tensor is the
height of the image in pixels the width
of the image in pixels and the depth is
three because it's a color image height
width and depth okay this height this is
with the
depth of the image so to understand H
stack and we stack for 3d tensors it's
very easy to imagine that with images
and that's what it was it was actually
designed for it
okay let's understand that imagine I
create an image with five rows four
columns look at this five rows four
columns and three depth 3 depth 3
basically means three colors right this
is the height this is the width okay
simple a this is my again what am I
doing here I'm just getting a random
matrix here that's all I'm doing here to
be honest right so okay let me find a
brighter color oh I got the red good
then I have my B what is B B is five
cross three comma K this is the height
this is the width is the colors simple
right this is my okay so let me just try
to use a different so my a is five four
three this is the height of the image
width of the image the depth of the
image or the number of colors this is my
a okay what about my B my B is five
three three now if I do an edge stack
will it work that's I have three
dimensions now again even drawing this
is little cumbersome so the way you are
to think about it is this when you're
doing H stacking imagine if I have an
image like this okay with some depth
with tough with some depth right again
the depth here basically means colors
okay suppose if this is my first image
okay this is my a image a five height
five this is for the depth is three I
have B B is again five height of five
the height is the same look at this the
height is the same the width is 3 the
depth is also three so what is H
stacking extract basically means
horizontally combine them so if I have
two images represented as two tensors
like this can I combine them
horizontally yes why I am able to
combine them horizontally because the
depth is the same look at this I'll
combine these two suppose if this is an
image of a face this is an image of
let's say
let's say some tell me something some
cricket back okay okay some okay
whatever I'm very bad at drawing okay if
I combine both of them what do I get I
draw like a wine bottle sorry so yeah
some car whatever okay
suppose if I combine both of them what
do I get I get a face next to it I get a
kill get back I can combine these two
right because the height is the same
okay this the height is the same the
depth is the same so I can combine them
horizontally so when you're applying
x-pac on 3d tensors we don't do much of
4d tensors much but 3d tensors are
important now at the both compatible yes
they both are compatible what should be
the result here think illogically what
should be the result here this should
stay 5 again if both of them are
horizontally combined I will get 5 comma
what happens to my width this is 4 this
is 3 so my width becomes 7 my depth
stays 3 that's what happened here my a
is 5 cross 4 cross 3 my B is 5 cross 3
cross 3 my C is 5 cross 7 cross 3 so
it's tack works but if I try to do a V
stack ok let's we'll go to V snack ok
let's do a different example right
suppose if I have my a which is 5 4 3
okay this is 5 this is 4 the depth is 3
anyway depth is 3 okay just keep 3 Isis
plus okay I mean or not what what is
this H stack on you know so not plus its
stack 4 cross 4 cross 3 cross 3 no can I
can I can I combine these two
horizontally look at this my depth is
matching cool there's no problem with
depth but this image height is for this
image height is only 5 if I combine them
there will be some gap that is created
here so I can't combine them
horizontally
that's way when you try to do this it
will give you a value error and it will
simply say sorry all the input
dimensions should be same and
concatenation cannot be done very simple
concept similarly okay let's look at
another example
ok so here what do we have
five four three and five four - can you
combine both of them you can't because
the depth is not matching everything
again there's also image concatenation
imagine if I have an image with three
colors five cross four and three this is
five cross four cross two for some
reason I can't combine them because if I
try to horizontally combine them if I
try to horizontally combine them these
cells will have three values here these
cells will only have two values so I
can't horizontally stack them this is
very important okay again I'm just
giving you multiple examples
now can you restart it how does we stack
work let's see okay so one of my
matrices is 543 okay so this is this is
my image always it's easy to think in
terms of images height width and this is
three depth is 3 what is height sorry
let me instead of writing height and
width let me just call it five four all
right five and four can IV stack this
width can IV stack this with two four
three let's let's draw V stack right so
vertically stacking so depth is three so
this 3 and this 3 are matching so I can
combine them cool this is 2 this is 4
because this is 4
I can combine so look at this think of
this as two cubes that you are trying to
join vertically the easiest way to think
about the missing two cubes that you are
trying to join do the fit well yes the
depth here is three the depth here is
three which means it will fit here the
width is four the width is four it will
fit so when the whole concept of H stack
and we stack the whole compatibility of
its track and we stack is by combining
two rectangles either vertically or
horizontally are you able to create
another rectangle this is with 2d with
2d are you able to create it if you can
there is no issue if you can't suppose
if you have an issue like this one
rectangle is like this one rectangle is
like this this is the final result is
not a rectangle then it will give an
error
similarly with 3d tensors instead of
rectangles now we are working in the
space of cuboids can you combine these
cuboids vertical stacking means this is
vertical the previous one this combining
them like this is
until stacking so by combining
horizontally or vertically can you
create a cuboid again that's the whole
point here right I hope this is clear
again now the exercise problem I have
for you is this the same thing that we
have done with H stack and we stack
actually if I go to the documentation of
H stack okay go to the documentation of
H stack it says if you read this the
functions concatenate stack and block
provide more general stacking and
concatenation operations okay H stack is
horizontal stacking vertical stacking
there are more general functions like
concatenate okay I want you to implement
whatever we have done above both 2d
stacking and 3d stacking using the
concatenate function again the
concatenation concatenate function
references here it tells you what is
again read the reference I've given the
reference here also I have given the
reference here also please go through
this I want you to implement and try out
the concatenation the H stack and we
stack operations using concatenate and
the objective here is that you know in
another way of doing the same stacking
thing and concatenate is much more
generic and much more powerful but of
course you have to be more careful also
right so what I will do again today
again there are two more problems and
sub problems that I wanted to discuss
I'll discuss them tomorrow most
importantly the only way you become good
at programming is I'll share this whole
document even problem four and five that
I'll discuss tomorrow hopefully we'll
discuss problem four five because we
have discussed so many errors and how to
debug errors we can speed up enough
tomorrow let's try to discuss five to
six problems okay I'll do four or five
I'll use six seven eight also right so
let's try to do that very importantly
some of the students in the comment
section as does about practice right so
here are a bunch of problems optional
assignments and applied here course
please go to this document download it
there will be a bunch of problems again
this document is all lighting 1516
programs related to functions again we
have one for pandas but there are lots
of online resources
okay I really love this resource this is
Python exercises for numpy beautiful
resource with tons of practice literally
like look at this there are 41 exercises
with numpy basics 192 exercise problems
with num by RS one day as the diagrams
are also beautifully drawn I love this
website I just bumped into it while
searching right I was looking for some
sample problems tons of problems there
is also sample solution given the only
way you become good at programming is by
practicing if you just listen to what
I'm telling you now if you don't become
a good programmer I am only giving you a
direction with the few examples if you
want to practice a lot of numpy problems
there are hundreds of problems here try
to at least solve a few if you want to
do a bunch of basic Python programs
geeks for geeks has a good collection I
really like this collection because it
starts very simple it starts with Python
program to add two numbers Python
program for factorial of a number Python
program for simple interest it starts
with these problems and goes on to
slightly more complex and let the tons
of problems here there are a bunch of
problems on dictionaries so if you want
problems for practice there is no dearth
of them all you have to do again please
understand that if you want to become a
good programmer you have to practice I
don't want to tell numbers because
different people have different
aptitudes different people come from
different backgrounds so I would say you
should reach a position where given a
problem you can break down the problem
again I have some problem on
permutations combinations some problem
on finding Peaks in a list bunch of
interesting problems I'll share this
whole document with you right after this
I'll put it in the comment section of
this video itself and also in the
description section but if you want to
practice more problems here they are
right so please again see you tomorrow
at 6 p.m. I know I couldn't cover
everything but I hope again please let
me know how you think about this
methodology again please understand that
today we are going slow because we are
in the starting today we could only do
three problems because for every error I
went through the documentation read the
documentation for you explained it
slowly I'll
every line of code but I may not be able
to cover every error I'll try to cover
most errors but in the interest of time
we have done three problems today let's
try to do five problems tomorrow
of course the complexity of problems
also will increase the next problem
itself is a is given a list like this
find the peak numbers I can I describe
this
we also external references that I give
for some of these right the next problem
is given a list like this print all the
permutations like I slowly increase the
complexity of problems right so again
see you tomorrow at 6 p.m. we're doing
it today tomorrow and the day after the
rest of the plan I'll let you know as we
progress based on our speed of progress
right so see you folks bye bye
