hi friends I guess we are life let me
just check if everything is working as
expected
please confirm that and then get back
and then we'll start the session itself
they just wait and check for audio yeah
I can see myself so I guess things are
alright no issues whatsoever because I
can see the live session myself right so
yeah I can also hear it sounds good
so I'll take a few questions before we
start the session I answer one of the
questions so somebody's asking how long
is the placement paused there is no
pause per se on placements there are
some of our students were interviewing
but some companies have posited from our
side there is no pause
we have been continuously in touch with
companies there are some companies that
are conducting interviews over Skype
especially those interview loops that
they've already started before the
before the shutdown but I I hope as soon
as the shutdown is over and as soon as
employees are back at their company
offices I'm hopeful that the companies
start their recruiting process where a
new candidates will start there will
start their sessions right so people who
have already started with their
interview loops their interview loops
are carrying on
but this pause is mostly from that from
some of the companies again it makes
completely logical sense right from
their perspective that they're not able
to connect because everybody is working
from home some companies want the
placements to be from their office
itself those companies are just waiting
for the shutdown to get over okay so
okay how can can we do deep learning
deployment end to end yes we'll do it so
if you notice the way we are doing these
live sessions is we are covering stamp
topic by topic right so let me just go
to apply to a course so the way I'm
planning to do these live sessions again
we discussed about it first I am doing
basically fundamentals of programming
right right now what we do here is
fundamentals of programming we are just
using yesterday we did some recursion
basic functions right we did some basic
numpy like we are doing basically we are
still in this chapter right
are not yet finished pandas by the way
we have done some computational
complexity today we will do some more
mathematical programming today I thought
I'll cover a couple of questions again
the later to the last two questions are
actually questions that have been asked
in interviews like for machine learning
engine and interviews at Yahoo labs and
at IBM Research right so I'll cover a
couple of those actual real questions
that have been asked to machine learning
engineers and and data scientists at
these two companies so I'll cover a
couple of real questions as in real
interviews also so having said that see
we are still here right tomorrow I am
planning to do a live session again that
will also be open to everyone
tomorrow's live session as I mention it
at the bottom of this current sheet is
will do strings and regular expressions
so we'll solve a bunch of problems
common mistakes errors just on strings
and regular expressions which is a very
important topic for machine learning in
general so I will cover that right so
tomorrow we'll do that we'll also do one
or two sessions and pandas once this is
over we'll go step by step once we
finish this will take some problems from
EDA right I'm also thinking of covering
Seabourn in much more detail by taking a
real-world example going through the
data analysis step by step again even in
our exploratory data analysis chapter we
have gone through a real example and
gone line by line code and all of that I
thought I will pick one more then we'll
go to linear algebra right so in linear
algebra again we'll revisit some of the
concepts from numpy and some scifi but
we'll do it with respect to the concepts
that we learn in linear algebra for
example we'll see how to write a program
to determine if given a hyperplane given
an n-dimensional hyperplane whether a
point is on one side or other side how
do you compute the distance between them
you have discussed the mathematics here
we have discussed some of this code also
but I thought I'd take a real-world
problem and solve again we'll do one
session on linear algebra we'll do
probably two or three sessions on just
probability and statistics code right so
I am planning to go step by step chapter
by chapter module by module will shortly
come to deep learning
forget about deep learning case studies
we will go through deep learning again
if you go through a deep learning case
study says somebody was asking right if
you go through some of a deep learning
case studies they're actually covered
end to end of course we will
some topics on deployment we have done a
live session earlier on deployment of
machine learning and deep learning
models using again this is using flask
and ec2 and AWS and things like that so
please go through some of those live
sessions that we have already done in
the past we'll do more live sessions for
short right so that that's that's the
important part here right so I'm
planning to go step by step topic by
topic I mean as long as this lockdown is
there we'll go topic by topic and do
more and more problem solving again the
objective here is mostly code
walkthroughs and to solve coding
problems for each of the concepts that
we have in our course for each chapter
we'll spend one or two days right I
understand that I'm spending more time
in Python programming because if you are
comfortable and good here rest
everything should follow that's why I'm
spending almost five or six days just on
fundamentals of programming okay sounds
good so yeah so what are the questions
somebody saying what are the okay so
again we are we will we will do a
session on matplotlib not on plotly we
will do a session on matplotlib because
that's what we discussed extensively in
our course videos but we'll do it
instead of doing it theoretically here
we'll do it in the EDA chapter again if
you look at a radial chapter we have
already used lot of functionality from
matplotlib but we'll cover more examples
we'll cover more more functionality
enough if lockdown is lifted then also
these sessions will go on again we don't
have any plan because we have some
students who are college going students
we have some students who are working
professionals we will we don't know
again we have the weekly C right now we
have the weekly live sessions and the
reason we conduct them weekly is because
people only get time during the weekends
to attend these live sessions alright so
during the lockdown since everybody is
at home we are conducting them daily so
that they also keep their mind occupied
on on improving their skills and not on
other stuff right so somebody says you
are getting poor video quality I don't
see that I'm getting like 720p that's
the best Google will allow right now
right so
okay sounds good I think I think we
should get started I have more problems
today I have like five problems that I
wanted to go through so without any
delay let's jump into the discussion I
believe some of you okay again I cannot
look at these comments as I'm explaining
this because they're completely on two
different tabs but I believe yesterday I
was reading through some of the comments
after the session some students were
asking us about some students were
asking us about what is the recursion
yes I am going to assume that you know
the you know the you know the basics of
Python because there is no point in
covering basics of Python because we've
already covered it as part of her course
and there are tons of resources
available my prerequisite if you read if
you recall for every live session I am
clearly making it clear that the
prerequisite is that you know basics of
Python right so please understand that I
will not be able to cover the Python
basics or any of the concepts basics the
objective of these live sessions is to
improve your programming skills used to
solve more problems in the context of
machine learning and AI it is not to
cover the basics I hope that that
objective is clear right so let's
continue with this okay so where were we
yesterday we understood I explained you
about this this is a very nice diagram
from Emory University math and computer
science department I've explained you
how this works right and then we ran out
of time so now let's actually some
buddies we have a very good suggestion
today over email that can you explain
the mathematics and how to convert the
mathematics to equations that I felt
that was a very good suggestion so I'll
try to follow that so how are we doing
this so what is this we want to compute
the integral of f of X DX from A to B
this is what we want to compute right
how are we computing this we said this
is roughly equal to is approximately
equal to summation right you're going to
sum sum multiple things what are we
going to compute from x equals to a to
be in the intervals of Delta X right so
first you will take x equals to a then x
equals to a plus Delta then a plus 2
Delta a plus 2 Delta so on so forth up
to be that's what say you're
approximating the integral
the summation right what I going to
compute f of X f of X sorry f of f of X
es f of X will give you this height
right then the width this is nothing but
Delta right into Delta right so you're
going to compute so X will take exceed
your value which will take a then a plus
Delta then a plus 2 Delta so on so forth
up to be up to be I have written the B
here right so you take each of the you
compute these products and you sum them
up right so this is approximation we
discussed now the question here is how
do you convert this into code it's very
simple look at look at this what are you
doing what how can you write this you
can write this as f of X multiplied by
Delta plus f of X plus Delta x delta
plus f of x plus 2 delta x delta so on
so forth you're repeatedly doing some
operation and you're summing up look at
this you whatever result you get you
store it in a temporary variable you sum
this with this that you submit with this
so what you're computing literally is
you are repeatedly computing this while
changing the parameter that you pass to
this function and you're summing it up
so what what tool that you have in
programming that helps you do something
repeatedly over and over loops right so
this should tell you that you have this
should tell you that you have to create
a loop we should tell you the summation
because you're repeatedly doing it this
should tell you that you have to create
a loop and you have to create a some
variable which you keep updating with
this value because it is a summation
right so very simple constructs again
when you get the logic you have to
connect the logic to programming
concepts especially if you're a beginner
programmer right once you have this you
just have to translate it into code
right so again yesterday we discussed I
hope I hope this math part is clear I
discussed this yesterday also and as we
discussed yesterday if the if the Delta
look at this what is this this is your
Delta right so this is your Delta the
smaller the Delta the smaller the Delta
the more accurate your area under the
curve would be so let's start writing a
function okay so first let's implement f
of X again remember what is the problem
find the area under the curve sign X by
X in interval minus 10 to 10 right so
let's actually plot this first so plot
sine X by X right so plot Google Google
will plot it for us thankfully okay so
from -10 to +10 you want to plot the
area that's what you want to compute
right cool this is looking good okay so
let's go into it okay so first and
foremost okay we are doing this okay we
are getting this area and we are
computing this cool so how do i compute
f of X define f of X I'm just creating a
function and I'm saying return sine x by
x very good and this is my lower bound
this is my a this is my B this is a
lower bound of my integral this upper
bound of my integral right very simple
first I'm just creating a function do
you see a problem in this function see
there can you find a bug in this there
is a bug actually in this code it's
literally four lines of code but there's
a bug can somebody tell me what's the
bug in the code is okay I'm looking for
your somebody says video quality is poor
I don't see that once again let me check
my streamer my streamer is streaming at
6 Mbps right so that's the default speed
that I typically
Google asks me to stream at so this is
at this is a proper speed let me refresh
my YouTube I mean again I can see it
perfectly alright I don't see any major
problem yes good good good a couple of
folks have said okay we have not handled
the case which is x equals to zero again
the reason I picked this is because
there is a problem if x equals to zero
in programming you have to always handle
boundary cases it is very very important
for you to handle boundary cases but
it's extremely important ok there are
some more errors in the code I will go
step by step actually before we go even
there right so let me tell you one more
thing there is one more problem actually
in this there is one more problem in
this actually if you think about it
there is one more logical bug here can
anybody find what that logical bug is so
in this in this way if I'm computing the
area under the curve like this there is
a buggy
here can anybody tell me what is the bug
what is the problem
in this okay so let's let's call it this
way okay let's just say integral okay
fine
let's not worry about it it's okay let's
continue we'll come to it when the
situation comes okay so this bug you're
clear I'm happy that you got it so all
I'll do is if X is not equals to zero
look at this all I'm inputting math I'm
just importing math I'm saying if X is
not equal to zero return sign X by X
otherwise return NN not a number because
division by error division by X will
create an error I am just saying not a
number right very simple okay my lower
bound upper bound
whenever I define a function I want to
test what happens so I'm printing f of
zero so if I execute this what happens
look at this if I execute this what
happens print F of zero it is printing n
a n very good no problem but when I say
print F of 1 I'm getting an error what
is the error here look at this look at
the error it's actually very simple to
read if you read this error it says
where is the error the error is look at
this when I have executed this func this
line of code this went to this function
f of X in this in this line there is a
problem
what is a problem name sign is not
defined sign is not an inbuilt function
you have to say math dot sign right
let's not forget that very common
mistakes not using math not sign and
using math not ABS instead of using ABS
that we saw yesterday right so I mean I
just modified it and I said math dot
sign cool and I'm getting the right
answer seems like reasonable right so
I'm getting an N F of 1 is this how do
we test it we can always test it I can
just go to F of 1 so this is where one
is f of I mean if you look at these
values here if I go to F of 1 look at
this if I go to F of 1 okay so if I go
to F of 1 it's close to point 8
something something something ok cool
seems sensible very good now let's write
the code right all you have to do is
translate the integral into look at this
we just have to translate this summation
we just have to translate this summation
which is f of X Delta and from x equals
to a
or my lower in this case I have lower
and upper right so that that's what it
is so I'm starting with my X equals to
minus 10 right which means x equals to a
a plus Delta a plus 2 Delta so on so
forth up to B so look look at how I've
written my code again it's very simple
once you get this I mean once you
realize that you have to write a for
loop it's actually straight forward from
here x equals 2 minus 10 right so
because I want the area from minus 10 to
+10 my Delta is 0.1 my area initially is
0 because I have to keep adding I would
keep adding this value over and over and
over again so while X is less than equal
to 10 look at this while X is less than
equal to 10 because as long as X is
because I want the integral from minus
10 to +10 look at this I want it from
minus 10 to +10 till the time B is plus
10 that's why I'm writing this in a
while loop I want to print as I told you
I always print things to make sure that
everything is working well if x equals
to 0 look at this I want to continue the
reason again this is a very important
boundary case that I'm handling because
if I don't handle this if I don't handle
it if I call with f of X equals 2 if I
call see in this isolation right when I
go from minus 10 to 10 and if I keep
incrementing my f of X if I keep
incrementing my X with Delta at some
point I will get X equals to 0 and F of
0 is n n right and then multiplied by
some Delta if I add if I add this to
some to area it will become an N right
so there's no point adding this so what
I'm doing here is I'm saying if x equals
to 0 just don't compute f of X don't do
any of this right just don't do this
just don't compute F of X and then add
this whole thing to the area just skip
it right so this is a boundary case an
important boundary case that we should
always handle number one number two look
at this I am saying area equals to area
plus C equals two so I'm updating my
area look at this my area is nothing but
my area is my area equals to area plus f
of X into Delta exactly the same
function that we have here right for
each value of x I am computing f of X
multiply it with Delta add it to this
variable called area after that I'm
changing my ex
X also X is now minus ten then it will
be minus ten plus Delta minus plus 2
Delta so on and so forth at the end of
this whole Y loop I am saying print area
I execute it I get an error so what
happens here is when I execute this I
get I go into an infinite loop right
this program never ends you can I had to
force it because it doesn't end I have
to click this button to force stop this
can anybody suggest what is the bug in
this why is this going into an infinite
loop again a very common mistake this
code is going into a infinite loop and
it's not ending any suggestions why any
suggestions why why is the limit
condition not considered I'll come there
I'll come there first let's answer this
question or somebody says yes good I'm
happy you got it somebody got it very
good this guy so very good so pratik got
it he was careful to see the code right
if you'd notice python takes care of
indentation so this whole thing is
inside the if loop enough sorry is
inside the if because python does
indentation automatically right so if x
equals to 0 only then you are updating
the area and X so these two lines should
be outside the if that's a problem
number one right so number one so the
problem here is indentation error this
should come here this should come here
lot of people especially people who are
new to Python mess up indentation very
common mistake now somebody asked me why
did we why are we not handling this case
right so the problem again we can handle
it gracefully when x equals to zero
again there are two ways to handle it
when x equals to zero as you come closer
and closer to zero the Y becomes one so
you can say ok sine X by X so what we
can do here is if X is not if X equal
sorry if X is equal to zero we can say
return one instead of n a n right that's
one way of handling it because we know
that for this function again for that
you do know the concept of limits in
calculus so limit f of X which is
neck's by X right as X tends to 0 what
does this mean again it's a very simple
mathematical concept it says what value
does sine X by X take as X comes closer
and closer to zero so let's actually
zoom this in if you notice let's just
zoom this in okay so let's just zoom
this in look at this if I'm coming from
this side if I keep going towards zero
look at this I'm going towards zero
right as I keep going towards 0 my Y is
moving towards 1 similarly from this
side if I keep going towards 0 my Y is
going towards 1 so I can say because the
limit X tends to 0 sine X by x equals to
1 I can just say forget all this if I
have my function f of X if x equals to 0
I will return 1 instead of this that
will solve the problem yes that's one
that's a very graceful way of solving it
but I wanted to show you the problems
with n am right that's why I took up
this case if you were to implement it in
production the better way to implement
this is to say return 1 here and you say
ok give a reasoning and say we are
returning one because limit blah blah
blah this this logic because limit X
tends to 0 sine X by x equals to 1 and
that's a right logic if you have to
implement in production that's how we
implemented but I wanted to show I
wanted you I wanted to show you some
boundary cases right especially with na
and what else can go wrong with na n ok
so I modified it I got my area outside
this I intended it properly enough now
ok I execute this code I execute this
code ok I execute okay is there a bug
here somewhere oh so this is this is
buggy I'm sorry I need to stop this okay
so this is buggy so this code will
execute ok so if I execute this code
what happens okay I got the answer ok I
executed this cord enough see all I have
done here is I've just changed look at
this I've just changed this indentation
to be properly now what did we compute
there two things what we computed now is
integration of f of X DX from minus 10
to 10 this is what we computed there is
a difference such slight a difference
between this and area under the curve
there is a
a difference let me explain that there
is a subtle there is a subtle detail
that I skipped earlier which I wanted to
cover okay so let me tell you so what we
computed now is integral f of X DX right
so this is what we computed where f of X
is sine X by X from minus 10 to +10 this
is what we computed by using a summation
X from minus 10 to 10 with some Delta
equals to point 1 this is what we
computed write f of X into Delta this is
what this is the approximation we have
taken and this is what we computed but I
have a question here ok this is actually
not the area under this function if you
look at this function right how does
this function look like okay let me show
you the function instead of me drawing
it right so there is a small problem
it is not so this what the integral that
I computed the integral that I computed
is not exactly the area of the function
from minus 10 to +10 this area it is not
equal to this Plus this Plus this Plus
this Plus this Plus this Plus this it's
not equal to this area is not equal to
this it anybody tell me what is the
mistake I intentionally made that
mistake can anybody tell this
highlighted area this area this area
this this this this this this if you
take the actually if you measure the
actual area it will not be equal to this
can somebody tell me what is wrong here
okay let's see the comment section yes
yes we need to take absolute value I'm
happy I'm happy you got it I'm very very
happy people are figuring it out very
good so the problem here is this ok the
problem here is very interestingly when
you take f of X Delta X look at this if
you take f of X Delta X right the f of X
here Delta is always positive remember
in the Delta we took his point 1 the f
of X here is positive so when you
multiply a positive number with Delta X
you get a positive number but what
happens here here f of X is negative
your f of X is negative right so what do
you get you get a positive number here
you get a negative number here so what
we are finding here what we are finding
to this into
is actually area look at this what we
are finding here is area above the
x-axis all the area that is above the
x-axis minus the area which is below the
x-axis that's what we are finding enough
so the fix to this problem is very
simple take the absolute value that some
of you get area so what the code that we
have written right now is for integral f
of X DX right that's what we computed
but if you want area under the curve if
you want area under the curve because of
this positive and negative side you
should always use absolute value this is
one of the most common mistakes again
I have asked such questions in
interviews and I've seen people mess up
the absolute value
I give them hints I tell them they can't
figure it out that tells me that they
are not thinking thoroughly if they
cannot think of a very simple function
like this I actually plot this function
and explain them how the function looks
but they are not able to figure this out
again why our interview is asking these
questions because interviewers want you
to think want to understand if you can
think critically and take hints because
they have to work with you as a teammate
tomorrow right they want critical deep
thinkers right so I hope this is clear
ok so that's that's so that's where we
are cool now we got this now when I
executed this whole function again our
code right now is not for the area our
code is actually for the integral f of X
DX ok from minus 10 to 10 where f of X
itself is sine X by X right so all that
is cool what is the answer that I got I
got an answer which is ok let's see I
got an answer which is 3 point 3 1 1 1
how do I know that this answer is
correct that's important right if you
think about it how do I know that this
on I got some answer again whenever you
write code you should test the code it's
extremely important to test the code you
have written to ensure that it is
correct so how do you check or how do
you test that this code is correct any
suggestions I would like to hear from
you guys so very true very true
the smaller the Delta somebody suggested
very good point
Delta becomes smaller if Delta is 0.0001
as Delta becomes smaller the area that
you get is or the integral that you get
right is close up to the original value
so let's just because I have not taken
the absolute value here the integral is
the integral A to B f of X DX is going
to be more accurate no doubts about it
guys will come to space and time
complexity just just wait just wait for
a second right
again there are inbuilt functions to do
it all so I know that but in interviews
people will say please don't use inbuilt
functions I want you to write the code
because they want to see how you write
code because as a machine learning it
also you have to write code right so
let's not forget that there are a
hundred ways of solving it I can solve
this problem in one line right as
somebody pointed out there is actually a
function called trapped said write a
number you can do that but the question
is not that the question is to test your
programming skills okay where are we
manually calculate the value how do you
calculate the value you would answer
try try googling it and tell me do unit
testing how do you do unit testing again
this is the problem right so you can
tell me do unit testing how do you do
unit testing what are your test cases
how do you do black box section how do
you do white box testing how do you do
that validate through library output
okay that's one possible to take cool
but imagine in an interview the
interviewer says you can't use any
libraries now how do you validate your
code is correct okay this this is one
good option manual calculation how do
you calculate manually guys somebody
please teach me can somebody do this
right now
F of sine X by X can somebody compute
this for me sine X by X DX please tell
me what is the answer it's an open
challenge if somebody can solve this for
me and put it answer here in the next
few minutes I mean I mean you're you're
brilliant with calculus I'll agree that
it's not such a trivial problem somebody
says Google answer try googling it and
let me know if you got an answer how do
we test it okay I'm looking for ideas
guys I'm looking for ideas please know
very different
what does it mean no very diff what does
it mean I didn't understand this can't
calculate okay yeah it's not easy trust
me
I mean I can calculate a integral of a
variation of this I can't calculate this
integral trust me
it's very very tough there is actually
an integral like this there is an
integral like this zero to infinity sine
X by X DX this integral itself is a very
hard problem and again since we know
this this function look at this
or you can calculate from minus infinity
to plus infinity also you can calculate
this integral right but this prior
integration by parts please I mean be my
guest
right so just try to find how do you do
this integration it's not easy by the
way it's extremely called a Feynman's
method of integration again as I told
you yesterday Feynman is one of the
greatest physicists and teachers of the
20th century so there is a technique
called figments integration you can find
that out again it's not easy
somebody said pi by 2 pi by 2 is the
integral of what again I think you
googled it but what is PI by 2 so if you
if you type integral integral sine X by
X ok yeah this is a very nice video it's
a very nice video so if you take it what
is the integral of sine X by X right so
if you take the integral
blah-blah-blah-blah there is a
calculation you get this whole answer
right of course it's a fairly complex
integral it's not an easy integral let
me tell you and it creates an infinite
series here again there are multiple
ways you say you expand your sine X into
a mathematical expression all of that
part there multiple ways of doing it but
it's not trivial that's what I'm trying
to tell you ok so look at this what is
the value of integral 0 to infinity so
again you can use Laplace transform
there is a ton of mathematics right so
from 0 to infinity it is PI by 2 look at
this again somebody posted the whole
proof it is not trivial trust me if you
have not done calculus for a few years
most likely you'll forget it right again
I'm not brilliant at integrations I've
done a few of them but I'm not the best
it took me quite a while to figure this
out right so integral 0 to infinity is
this which means minus infinity
to infinity look at this curve so if you
just plot this curve right sine X by X
where is this okay so if you look at
this curve let me just plot it carefully
if you plot this curve you will see that
whatever is the integral from zero to
infinity this this whole function is
symmetric so whatever is the integral
from zero to infinity the same will be
the integral from zero to minus infinity
because this is symmetric over X Y axis
so this integral from zero to infinity
for sine X by x equals to PI by 2 which
means integral from minus infinity to
infinity sine X by X is PI now what are
we integrating we are only integrating
from minus 10 to +10 one good thing that
you can think office look at this one
good thing you can do the way you can
test this code is instead of having -10
to +10 just say - thousand - plus
thousand because we know that this
function look at this this whole
function will keep becoming smaller and
smaller as we keep going forward look at
look at this this whole thing this this
values have become extremely small as x
increases or as X goes towards plus
infinity or X goes towards minus
infinity this curve becomes very small
so if you take values from minus
thousand to plus thousand write that
again you just have to change your code
slightly just change your code slightly
how do we check right so one suggestion
one very nice suggestion here is
integrate from this you get PI by 2 I've
provided the YouTube video so I know I
know very easily that yes I just have to
use I just have to use this fact and
solve it right I'll just say a equals to
minus thousand B equals to plus thousand
and I will recompute this if the value
is closer to PI I know that my code is
working well that's one way without dot
is there another way actually there's
another way I already showed you that
another simpler way is just just change
your f of X to something that you know
look at this I just change my f of X to
constant what is my function now look at
it look at look at my code right this is
from minus 10 this is from minus 10 to
+10 right what we have written is a very
general for a
work for any f of X rec so all I'll do
now is very simple all I will do is I
change my f of X my f of X is constant
which means this is my f of X my f of X
equals to 1 right if I have to if this
is my X and if this is my f of X this is
my Y or f of X it is constant so what
say again
nothing has changed the whole code is
the same I have not changed the code I
have just changed f of X right because
it's easy to verify this what is the
area under this curve from here to here
this is basically a rectangle length 20
height 1 so area is 20 so much more easy
way if you are not come again this is
certainly one way but a much more easier
way is to just say ignore all that I
just change my F of X because I know
that my f of X computation is correct
because you just sine X by X right let
me change this to a simpler function and
validate if everything is working all
right so when I do this let's go to the
answer I get a value of 20 point so I
just changed my F right and I got I
should actually have gotten 20 but what
I'm getting here is 20 point to 1 of
course that could be because my Delta is
point 1 as I decrease my Delta this will
become closer to 20 obviously that's one
idea cool but can you do better than
this right so what we have done right
now is basically what is called as a
rectangular method why is it called a
rectangular method because we are using
areas of rectangles look at this we are
using rectangles to represent or we are
using areas of rectangles to approximate
this curve that's what we are doing
right is there a better method so as
somebody rightly pointed out there is
actually a better method which is our
assignment so that's called the
trapezoidal method right
I leave that for you as a I mean you can
take it as an assignment it's a good
assignment to compute so the trapezoid
rule goes as follows again I have given
multiple links there is a very beautiful
video from Khan Academy for 12 class
students right this is something that
well class students learn across the
world again I have taken some nice
diagrams from math 24 there
also a beautiful explanation from
brilliant Auto energy right so first I
try to draw this diagram right so I've
taken this very nicely explained diagram
I'm trying to plot it very good I get a
very big diagram like I don't want this
like unwieldy diagram so I want to
shrink the size but I don't like this
display again showing your data cleanly
and beautifully in ipython notebook is
also an important skill because other
should be able to read it so first thing
that I think of phase ok this image is
there URL and giving the URL but is
there any other parameters that I can
modify so I go to image image in ipython
right so where is this where which image
I'm using I'm imaging from ipython door
display image in ipython door display I
want to know the function definition or
the function reference basically ok so
let's go to that function okay so here
it is so there is certain there is image
that is image here ok there is image
image ah so here it is right so here is
the ok here is the description so data
URL look at I'm using a URL right look
at this I want to understand see when
when I just try to show this image I'm
getting a like too big an image I want
to resize the image now I don't know how
to resize I don't remember every damn
function Under the Sun it's impossible
for anyone to remember it unless they're
using this on day to day basis right so
I just say ipython dot display image I
want to understand how this works right
so there is a URL I'm giving a URL
variable here now what else can I give
so I go and start reading the
documentation here right so there is
data there is URL there is file name I
can also show a local file there is
format cool there is some embedding
there is width and height now what does
width and height here represent with
represents width to which to constrain
the image height to which you want to
constrain the image cool this is very
good
right so I want to constrain this image
or I want to limit the image to a
smaller size so I know that I can use so
by just went to this reference I google
search for it and I said width equals to
400 height equals to 400 again I'm
repeating this over and over again
because it's important to learn this
skill of reading function references and
understanding it
now when I say 400 400 I got this image
right so I can actually go ahead and say
final to find it because 400 400 is too
small right so 500 500 okay they just
execute it okay this image looks much
better so what is that concept behind
trapezoidal rule trips third rule is
very simple represented rule says if
this is my F of a and if this is my look
at this this is my F of a right this
height this is my F of a this is my F of
a plus Delta right so not what on what
were we doing we were taking this
rectangle we were earlier we were taking
only this rectangle area so what
trapezoid again this is a rectangle
right what is a trapezoid if this line
is not straight what you get is a
trapezoid so the trapezoid rule what it
says here is you know what is f of a you
know what is f of a plus Delta so
instead of taking this rectangle also
use this triangle also use this triangle
the sum total is a much better
approximation than just this rectangle
so a trapezoid trapezoid is a better
approximation than a rectangle that's
the core idea behind trapezoidal rule or
trapezoidal it's also called a
trapezoidal sums now how do you compute
the area of this look at this look at
this right let me redraw this right for
you so you have this part okay I'm just
drawing larger okay so this area is
simple this height is f of a right this
width is Delta that is cool which means
this width is also Delta right this
width is Delta what is this height now
this height is nothing but f of a plus
Delta minus F of a because this point
y-axis is f of a this point y-axis is f
of a plus Delta so that's what this
height is so we know the area of the
triangle right it's nothing but half of
base into height right so we know this
area which is f of a into Delta plus
half of base which is Delta into F of a
plus Delta minus F of a because the
height is this that's it so you got the
area of the first part
right this is the area of the first
episode same program like earlier except
that instead of just having the
rectangular term you also have the
triangular term to create the whole
trapezoid right so same it's the same
look that you have to execute like the
previous time instead of just having one
term you have two terms now now what I
want you to do is use the same use the
try to implement the trapezoidal rule
well it's also called a trapezoidal sums
right I hope the intuition is clear the
exercise knob is try to find the area
under this curve same curve or forget
about area under the curve let's just do
f of X f of X DX right from minus 10 to
10 again the difference between area and
this is just basically absolute value
it's only difference right if you want
area just put absolute value function
here that's it
please do this using trapezoidal rule
and see that trapezoidal rule gives
better results more accurate results
than rectangular rule or rectangular
sums right I hope this is clear okay
again to be honest with you I've asked
some of these questions again I've had a
wide spectrum of candidates that I
interviewed throughout my career I've
interviewed hardcore math guys I have
interviewed hardcore CS guys I've
interviewed mechanical electrical
electronics all sorts of folks right so
this is a this is a very common problem
that every engineer every student of
science and mathematics should be able
to solve if they know programming this
is this like level class 12th class math
right I'm not asking any complex stuff
I'm not asking you to solve some complex
differential equations or complex
mathematics so for machine learning
engineers very often again not always
but very often they will give you a
mathematical problem I'll show you a
couple of problems by the end of this
live session right they'll give you a
mathematical problem which also requires
programming because you as a machine
learning engineer or a data scientist
have to actually write programming forth
to solve mathematical problems so this
is much more appropriate for what you
would do on your job right so that's one
okay so let's go and change let's go to
the next problem okay work is slightly
different problem okay cool I have this
function sine X by X
the same function that we have been
using because we are used to it now so I
want you to compute a maximum between -2
and 2 now let me explain what is a
Maxima I think people who remember that
felt class maths again all these are
relevant in the context of machine
learning we will end up using maxima
minima studied extensively later on in
the course right
I'll show you tons of examples later ok
so where were we plot sine X by X ok so
let's let's zoom it in so let's zoom it
in so what I want to do here is this
let's understand the problem first sine
X by X in - 2 - 2 right so from minus 2
to 2 which means from this value from
minus 2 to 2 I want to find a maximum
Maxima basically means something which
is the peak right so I'm given this
function I'm not given values of the
function I am just given this so I'm
given this so this this function in this
region I want to find this peak again
finding Maxima this is what is called as
maxima there is also a concept called as
minima so if I am given this interval
let's assume I'm given this interval and
I'm asked to find the minima here
minimize this minimum value this at this
value you find the minimum right so
that's a concept here so for our problem
I hope you again minima and Maxima are
also called as Optima again we have
discussed this in our optimization part
of the course but I'm just using this
because since we anyway learn basics of
integration I thought I'll continue some
differentiation also right so my problem
is clear between -2 and 2 I want to find
this point which is 0 I know that
visually I can see that and find it out
right but given any function imagine you
are given some function f of X and
you're given an interval a comma B and
here you asked to find the Maxima in
that interval how do you find that again
here it's very simple you just see it
you just see that this at 0 f of X is 1
that's a maximum but I wanted to write a
program for a general f of X how do you
tackle this problem I hope this is clear
right again just think think logically
that's all I'm asking you don't have to
be expert in calculus
double differentiation equals to zero
okay so you have sine X by X right
please differentiate it for me that's
certainly one way you just say okay I
have sine X by X I do D by DX of this
right it will give me some function
right I'll equate that to 0 this will be
some some differentiation again you can
use if you're good at calculus you can
use the chain rule of calculus right and
you can compute this whole thing chain
rule or product rule all of that there
tons of rules basic rules right then you
get an equation here we have learned how
to solve this right given any function f
of x equals to zero we saw how to solve
this yesterday right in the root
fighting exercise we saw that if you
recall we saw how to find f of X equals
to zero right didn't we
yesterday's live session right so we
took this example right I asked this
question where does sine x by x become
equal to zero so the same logic instead
of sine x by x if i can compute the
derivative now how do you compute again
there are ways to compute the derivative
no doubt about it
again computing derivative is much more
easy so derivative sine X by X I mean
you don't have to be expert at it you
can just what is the derivative of sine
X by X again I think I put the link in
the notes also you just do it okay you
get this as the answer x cos x minus
sine X by X square right that's your
answer so just make this make this as
your G of X and just solve this G of x
equals to zero you can solve it right
we've learned how to do this if the
derivative equals to zero then you know
it is either maxima or minima you don't
even have to do second derivative you
just see the plot here look at this
between this region look at this between
minus 2 and plus 2 you don't have any
minima so whatever point you have where
the derivative is 0 right that point is
only the Maxima so you can just say okay
I find this part again some of you may
not know what is the derivative so let
me explain that ok
some of you may have forgotten that
so let me give you the intuition behind
what a derivative is okay some of you
actually I got caught up because
everybody was explaining the answer but
let me explain what is the derivative
let's take this function right what is a
derivative derivative of this function
at this point okay let me just zoom out
a little okay okay this looks good so
let's take this point okay the
derivative of this function derivative
of FX with respect to X let's assume at
x equals 2 sorry at x equals 2 minus 2
what is this derivative mean again this
is just a notation mathematics has
notation what is the purpose of notation
so that we don't have to write long
sentences how do you read this
derivative of this function FX with
respect to X at x equals 2 minus 2 this
is just a notation what does it mean
right so I what it means is at minus 2 @
- @ x equals 2 - 2 look at your function
f of X what is the slope like at this
point I can draw a tangent ok I'm not
very good at this drawing because this
is Donita so I hope you all understand
draw a tangent right tangent basically
is a line if you've forgotten that
tangent is basically a line that touches
only at that point okay I am NOT a
perfect guy to draw this but a tangent
is basically touches this curve only at
one point a straight line that touches
this the slope of this tangent ok the
slope of this tangent we all know what
is the slope of a line right suppose if
I have a line like this what is the
slope of this line slope of this line is
tan theta right again all this i
explained in the course but since we are
anyway at it I thought I'll explain this
right what what is the slope of this
line slope of this line is nothing but
this by this right so if you have this
line what is the slope of this line it
is the rate of change of Y with respect
to X that's what it is or it is
basically tan of this theta so you draw
this line you draw this line you take
this theta you take the tan theta of
this right what you get is the slope
what slope measures intuitively look at
this what slope measures again the
beauty of calculus is it all arrived
from physics but it has tons of
applications the slope here tells me how
fast if I have more slope if the slope
here what DF by DX is measuring is it is
measuring the slope of f with respect to
x here if you think the slope here slope
measures the rate of change slope
measures the rate of change that's where
you use calculus in physics velocity is
rate of change of position right or
change of a change of rate of change of
displacement right similarly
acceleration is rate of change of
velocity so slope basically measures the
rate of change of something now we know
the slope here again for those of you
those for the course injured students
don't worry I explained this a lot more
detail like I spent almost a couple of
hours explaining the basics of calculus
later right for others I'm trying to
simplify it for you enough okay I'm
trying to close it down in a few minutes
okay so here here look at this as I'm at
minus 2 I'm increasing this function is
increasing at minus 2 right so which
means the slope will be positive most
importantly because this function is
increasing at minus 2 as you are going
from as this value increases this is
increasing
hence the slope is positive what happens
the slope here look at this let's take
minus 2 okay let's take minus 2 so let's
take my let's take plus 2 and plus 2
what is the slope how is the line see
the tangent will be like this which
means the tangent theta theta will be
here theta will be greater than 90
degrees that's one way of thinking about
the other way the much more intuitive
way of thinking here is this curve how
does this curve change at 2 again there
is a mathematical way there is an
intuitive way I prefer the inclusion
always so look at this this curve at 2
as the value increases it is reducing
which means the slope or the
rate of change of this function the rate
of change or the change of in this
function because of change here will be
negative again what is DF by DX think
about it intuitively it is basically
again let me write it mathematically it
is the change in F how much f changes
because of change in X as limit Delta X
tends to 0 right again if you remember
this is the definition of DF by DX if
you recall your 11th class mathematics
all that it says here is how much does F
change if I met to look at this look at
this idea if I met to and if this is 2
plus Delta right if this is my X if this
is X plus Delta right X plus Delta let's
write at X plus Delta X so this is f of
X right and this is f of X plus Delta X
what is the definition the definition of
DF by DX is what is the depth what is
the rate of change of this rate of
change is nothing but f of X plus Delta
X minus f of X which is nothing but the
rate of which is nothing but the change
in F by Delta X as limit Delta X tends
to 0 it is the change in F because of a
change in X but the infinitesimal change
that's the idea here right so if you
notice at at minus 2 as x increases
slightly f of X is increasing which
means the slope is positive here at to
look at this at 2 as x increases
slightly as x increases slightly this is
becoming negative at all these points
and all these points the slope is
positive at all these points the slope
is negative what happens to the slope at
this point the slope at the at the at
the place where you get this Optima or
in our case the Maxima the slope equals
to 0 that's why that's why I mean if for
those of you have forgotten it you find
Maxima or minima to find maxima or
minima what do you do you say derivative
of this function
with respect to X equals to zero
wherever this is true you will find a
maxima and minima but why do you find it
I don't want you to read to remember
equations I wanted to remember the
intuition the reason this works is
because at that point where the
derivative is zero you are going from a
positive change to a negative change at
Maxima
this is the Maxima right at a minima
look at this at a minimum what will
happen here this is negative the
gradient here or the or the slope here
is negative the slope here is positive
at a minima it will be zero right so you
can easily find a Maxima how do you find
a maxima and minima you keep trying
again in the interval minus 2 to +2 you
keep trying these values you keep you
keep computing these values wherever you
see that the derivative is close to 0
very close to 0 that is where you have
your Maxima right and if you're going
from positive to negative as your height
rating threw it in code again
mathematically you can say the double
derivative DF by DX DX if this is equal
to 0 this is minima you can write the
double derivatives but how do you write
it in code right so how do you write the
code part of it I think that's the
important aspect so to get the code part
of it you just say I want to go from
minus 2 to 2 and as I am going at every
point I want to compute the slope at
every point I want to compute the slope
I realize that the slope here is all
positive somewhere around this point the
slope is closest to 0 because I may not
get exactly zero here but at some point
the slope is very close to zero and
after that the slope becomes negative
since the slope is going from positive
to negative Y is zero this point where
it was close very close to zero that is
a Maxima you don't have to do second
derivative all of that again this
question is important because this
question especially for a machine
learning engineer this question helps
the interviewer understand if you
understand the geometry behind if you
understand the geometry behind
derivatives you
I'd say okay I have done deep learning I
have done back propagation have done
this this this this I've seen people who
claim that I asked them this simple
problem I asked them I'll give you a
function f of X okay I'm not going to
tell you what the function is you can
just call a function you just pass X
you'll get f of X that's all now I'll
give you an interval A to B you have to
find whether there is a maxima or minima
or if there exists a Maxima or minima I
just tell them please write the code for
this and I've seen tons of people fail
at it because they don't understand what
is they don't understand what
differentiation is intuitively they have
done back drop I tell them they say I
have done in lsdm they have done this
that this is that but they don't have
basic knowledge which means they do not
have the skills to learn more advanced
concepts the foundational skill is more
important than anything else okay so I
hope this is clear okay so let's go into
our let's go into our code okay so the
key observation always look at the plot
the slope changes from positive to
negative around Maxima now okay now this
is cool I already told you right so we
know we can again what one thing that I
can do is okay as I just mentioned right
so I have this I have this curve right
this is at minus two and this is at plus
two I want to find this is at zero right
this is where my Maxima is one thing I
can do here is I can write a for loop
where I tested at minus two I'll test it
at minus two plus some Delta minus two
plus 2 Delta I'll keep testing it up two
plus two
at some point look at this at some point
at one of these points this value will
become very close to zero or zero itself
very close to zero or zero itself so
that point that point where it goes from
very close to zero I also keep track of
the fact that I'm going from a positive
slope to a negative slope right that
point again this is a simple iterative
linear algorithm I can write a simple
for loop for X from minus 2 to 2 again I
am writing pseudocode here with some
increment I can keep testing of f of X
wherever f of X where wherever actually
I don't test f of X I test the gradient
I have to compute the gradient at every
point right I will
do the slope how do i compute the slope
now that's the next question so I would
write the function for slope right so
first let's start writing things down
okay this is my import Matt this is my f
of X we know how to write f of X wrong
so I will write slope of X I'll write a
function call
I want to find the slope of f of X how
do you compute the slope of X I told you
this earlier right suppose if I have a
function like this right so if this is X
and this is Delta X plus Delta X what is
the equation for slope look at this my
Delta has to be very small so I'm making
my Delta very small what is it what is
the equation for slope f of X plus Delta
X minus f of X by Delta X as Delta X
tends to 0 so what did I do my Delta X
is very small what am i returning f of X
plus Delta minus f of X by Delta that's
what I'm doing right exactly this I made
my Delta very small I just translated
this so what slope F X is giving me is
nothing but the derivative again even if
I don't know how to compute the
derivative of f of X f of X look at this
my f of X can be anything guys I don't
care if I don't know how to derive sine
X by X I can still use this because I'm
using the definition of what our
derivative this is DF by DX at X I'm
using the definition of derivative to
compute the slope so one question that I
used to ask is I give the I tell the
interviewer I tell the interviewee that
I give you a function f of X but you
can't see the code it's in some library
you can't see the code okay what it does
you don't know just remember that it's a
continuous differentiable function
that's all I'm telling you right now you
have to tell me the Maxima minima of
this function so typically people tell
me ok let's compute the derivative of
this function second derivative all of
that I say you can you don't know what
this function is I can't write it
mathematically also now tell me how will
you solve it so that's where this
definition this is basically the
mathematical definition of what
differentiation is and that's what I am
computing here now I want to test is
this true
I've implemented effects have
implemented slope of FX slope of FX is
nothing but f dash X our derivative of X
without computing the derivative
explicitly that's important I'm using
the definition of derivative now I'm
running this okay
print slope F of one okay I ran this I
got some answer cool but how do I know
that this is working correctly maybe
I've done some small mistakes somewhere
you should always test every function
that you write every snippet of code you
should always test it how do you test it
any suggestions any suggestions guys or
somebody's saying what if you have
multiple maximum you might come down
just wait for it I'll come there please
I'll tell you I'll tell you that's a
much more that's a much more complex
scenario I'll come there please wait for
it now any suggestions on how to tackle
this my question here is how do I test
that my again f of X we have already
written the code earlier so we know that
it works can anybody help me with slope
FX can somebody help me with how do I
test this slope and what what are the
test case somebody told unit testing
earlier right what are the test cases if
I take slope f of n I get this but how
do I know that this is a right answer
right any suggestions maybe I've written
some code for known function put values
manually a good idea very good good just
change your FX because in this I'm not
I'm not using anything except FX no
that's a very good suggestion quick
learners I'm very happy just change your
f of X to some to some function that you
know write some function like X square
for which you know the derivative
because in this function I'm not using
anything except f of X right so I can
easily test this that way that's one way
I can visually if I see it the other way
I mean this is you guard or a hack for
those of you don't know Hindi
you got basically means innovative hack
ok so I know at 0 look at this I just
plotted it from minus to total I know
that there is there is this if there is
this point where the gradient where the
gradient should be 0 again gradient and
slope mean the same thing gradient is in
a higher dimensional space right so
just excuse me I I tend to use the word
gradient because I do mostly vector
calculus and not scalar calculus again
we'll do vector calculus when we talk
about optimization little later in our
series okay so okay one thing that I can
do is okay I just try f0 what's there
okay I'm getting an in oh why am I
getting an al no look at this I said
float f0 I'm getting a name why am I
getting a name because FX look at this
because there is FX here F of zero so X
I passed a zero it computes f of X plus
some Delta f of X now at zero what
happens this is going to give me an N so
this is going to fail if I give zero
that's a problem think about it look at
this there's a bug in this code actually
that's the reason I wanted to walk
through walk you through this case so
one thing that we should fix is if x
equals to zero we should just return one
point zero right because we discussed
this earlier right the earlier example I
want to show you to explain about n a n
but a good programmer will always say
written one point zero because we know F
of 0 from the limits that I discussed
earlier it should be 1 now everything
will get fixed so if you actually wrote
an N and not return one this is the
problem that you'll encounter later on
in your code right so I hope this is
clear one second I want to still keep
again this will solve our problem
I know see this has become very close to
zero but I still want to keep an eye on
for a while because there is one more
bug I want to show you because I see lot
of students doing mistakes with division
by zero and names etc I'll keep this or
one second F of zero what happened here
an N is not defined or math not a name
no return a name that should be okay
what is wrong with this math not an N
one second let me see I have again it's
very very common to get confused with
code like this one second where am I
return is a main in math okay let me
just run it oh yeah it's running it's
math latte nyan yeah again it's very
common mistake so just just be cautious
of it and you'll be able to figure it
out again if I did not put this the
error it showed me was okay nn-not fund
n n is not defined so obviously it must
be in math not a name right most likely
that's it problem solved let's try a
couple of things you'll solve it okay so
enough remember we learned bisection
method earlier yesterday what did we do
in bisection method in route-finding
what did we do we took we took an
interval so our interval is not - - - -
right our interval is - two - two right
what did we do yesterday instead of
linearly searching to every value
instead of saying - two - two plus Delta
minus two plus 2 Delta so on so forth we
said let's break it down again the
interesting part here is we know that
this curve has only one Maxima if it has
multiple Maxima this approach will fail
right again in actual machine learning
you will encounter a problem of multiple
Maxima especially in deep learning but
not so much all right suppose if your
curve is like this suppose your curve is
like this right suppose if this is your
a and this is your B you try to now find
Maxima right you might end up at this
Maxima or at and this Maxima
so such functions again we discuss this
in the course also in optimization these
functions are called as non convex
functions these functions are called as
non convex function their differentiable
and all that for non convex functions if
you have multiple Maxima the algorithms
that were discussing will either find
this Maxima or this Maxima the there are
algorithms to find all the maxima but
theoretically you can prove that they're
extremely time they have extremely high
time complexity right so again there's a
whole area called convex optimization on
convex optimization etcetera we'll
discuss that when we come into the
concepts of optimization that we discuss
later in the course but just for
intuition if I have multiple Optima look
at this if I start searching from A to B
right I try a if I do a linear search a
plus Delta X a plus 2 Delta X a plus 3
Delta X so on and so forth I will first
find this point if I do my iteration
from A to B I will find this point and I
will stop if I start my iteration from B
to a then I will find this point right
to find both the points you have to try
everything you try all
values if you want to find both the both
the both these up both these Maxima you
know try every value but let's assume
for simplicity that there is only one
Maxima there is only one Maxima let's
just assume in such a case why don't I
use binary search that I can use binary
search right if you think about it
logically because I know that if this is
my interval look at this is exactly at
zero right so okay so let me change this
interval slightly let me just say this
is minus 1 and this is 2 okay
why because otherwise you'll get 0
directly the Maxima point so this is the
initial interval that I'm working in
first I break it into two suppose if
this is a let's make it simpler if this
is a and this is B this value is let's
say a plus B okay let me just teach you
the general question ok at this point at
this point I have Maxima now what I do
now is this I know that the that the
slope or the gradient here is positive I
know that the slope here is negative
right I know that fact now I can use a
bisection method which is same as binary
search we talked about bisection method
a in yesterday's live session right so
what I do is instead of a and B see I
have this big interval or a plus B by 2
so I'm sorry a plus B by 2 is the middle
point so instead of taking this large
interval
I'll start focusing on this first part
so I compute a plus B by 2 at a plus B
by 2 I say is the slope positive or
negative the slope is negative I can
compute the slope right at any point I
can compute using my slope of f of X
this is negative because the slope is
negative here I know that the answer has
to lie in this region and I can ignore
this whole region
that's what bisection does isn't it
that's the idea here
right so here instead of looking for f
of X values look at this when we solved
route-finding yesterday we looked for f
of X and we said is f of X positive or f
of X negative here we are saying slope f
of X or derivative of f of X derivative
of f of X is also written as f dash X
sometimes right just for simplicity
instead of writing DF by DX every time
just write f dash X right so instead of
checking for f of X the way we have done
it in route finding
now we are solving using f dash X for
them for this same bisection method same
concept
look at this okay okay so okay let's
let's start with this my X lower limit
is 2x upper limit is 2 minus 2 and plus
2 okay so I'm starting at minus 2 and
plus 2 right my lower limit upper limit
so there's a curve like this I want to
find this maximum I know that the Maxima
is at 0 it's easy to test
so my first X is the middle point this
is what bisection write same bisection
concept all that I've done this is same
code like yesterday remember we did not
put absolute value yesterday I showed
you a bug but instead of calling f of X
I'm calling slope of f of X because I
want the derivative look at this I want
the derivative to be equal to 0
right very simple concept this this part
this print we know again look at this
look at the code here this is my section
code that we have seen it yesterday the
only change I have done here is instead
of f of X I put slope of f of X instead
of f of X here I put slope of f of X
this whole code is exactly what we have
seen yesterday same logic nothing
changes
same logic not very execute it I get an
error okay
this this is a fun errand I love this
this is the reason I love Ni and
sometime I executed this look at this I
executed this code
I got ok so when I executed this code
the first thing that came I got f of X
here I got X ok cool then I got ok I got
my answer which is x equals to 0 f of X
is NN I got this answer I said ok this
looks very good but I got my my slope of
f of X remember sorry I should have said
slope FX here I'm sorry
ah just let me change this I think I
copy pasted code ok so let me just
execute it okay so what did I get now
look at this when I executed this code
none this printf statement did not run
at all this printf statement did not run
at all I directly got this statement
look at this my initial value is minus 2
then I have plus 2 which means my
initial value of x is 0 right we just
computed this no print statements this
print statement did not execute
this print statement did not execute why
didn't they execute because probably
this this failed so what is this
absolute value of slope of f of X is
greater than point zero zero one now in
our implementation look at our
implementation of f of X our
implementation of f of X still returns n
n when x equals to zero in such an
implementation what will slope of f of X
written I showed you this earlier right
look at this slope F 0 look at this ok
slope F 0 it is returning an N n so
absolute value of n n is greater than
point zero zero one look and look at
what I got again very common mistake
again with anions so this is acute
addthis executed x equals to zero before
I enter into the while loop I have to
check this when I executed this I got an
N right I got an N now now I know this
because I just showed you in a previous
line now I got n am greater than 0.2 0.8
m were with a number this is like
ridiculous to compare but we compared it
we didn't handle this boundary case look
at this we didn't handle the boundary
case that I can get any else here so if
you actually compare if you compare
slope a slope F 0 which is a name if you
compare n n with 0.001 you always get
false
you always get false okay this is
something that we explained in the
course videos also as never compare a
name but if you compare there are these
boundary cases that you enter into never
compare it because it failed you just
came out of the for loop and you printed
the answer
I understand x equals to 0 is the
correct answer but slope of f it should
be 0 it should not be a name right so
there is a logical bug here that you did
not handle the case that this could be n
al and you are comparing an n a n with a
number it's a major bug so we have to
fix it so how do we fix it very simple
okay a couple of facts this is my
favorite hack okay let me explain the
hack for you all I do is this ok again
this code stays the same I just say
while true always true just will break
the loop whenever we want
ok now let's look at this I check if
slope F X is an N if again
is an N is a very important thing if it
is an N this is where I use a little bit
of mathematical beauty or programming
and randomization I love again
randomization is one of my favorite
ideas in whole of algorithms and
mathematics it's I think the most
powerful idea okay so what I do here is
again this is my favorite to be honest
with it so I just check first I always
check look at this I write this
condition before anything else
he's slope F X n n the math roties n n
tells me if it is a name I am going to
change my X slightly what am I going to
do I'm going to make my x equals 2x plus
random dot random by 100 what does
random dot random give me
what does random dot random give me just
a second guys just a second just a
second please
okay so so let's just assume that okay
so okay so what am I doing here I got an
error see whenever slope F X equals to
zero or whenever it is equal to NN what
am I doing here I'm changing X or
unperturbed waiting X by slightly adding
a small error
what does random dot random give me it
gives me a random number between 0 and 1
I'm dividing that by 100 when it divided
by hundred suppose if it gave me point
five I'm dividing it by 100 what do I
get I get zero point five right zero
zero five I'm adding a small error or a
small randomness to my X because I know
that act if at X at X if the slope
equals to zero if the slope if the slope
equals to whatever is the slope as I
implemented if I am getting an N mostly
at X plus some small Delta again I'm
writing Delta using the small alphabet
Delta right instead of the capital Delta
okay if I just perturbative with some
random number here if I just randomly
perturb it it with a small random number
here I'll get rid of that problem
so here what am I doing here since if
this is an aien
just change X slightly and just follow
everything else again this loop
basically says what does this say this
says if if the slope is very close to
zero
just break again this condition we had
it in the while in the previous I just
pulled it inside first I'm checking if
it is n n if it is MN I'm slightly
changing X using a random value then I'm
checking is is the slope very close to
zero then come out of the loop or else
this whole loop stays the same again
this is one of the many ways to fix it
now when I execute it look at this I get
an ends I get an end but within a few
iterations I get my X very close to zero
and my slope X very close to very close
to zero I hope this is clear right again
what did we learn we learned a bunch of
things right
the biggest problem often in
mathematical programming is na ins again
we'll keep encountering this in the
future also
but I wanted to show an example that's
why
picked sine X by X because this is in
the denominator ideally when x equals to
zero please do not return n/a and return
one so how did you decide that by
looking at the plot by using the limits
that's the key idea but in case you have
an en anywhere you have an en please
handle them please don't compare Na ins
with numbers it's a very very common
mistake so I'm trying to explain you
common mistakes along with concepts
right so please don't do that please
don't do that mistake and eggs if you
have it always use randomization it's a
beautiful trick up your sleeve right so
cool
my suggestion now is please compute
maxima and minima of this function again
I will not tell you the intervals please
plot this figure out some interval where
there is maxima figure out some interval
where there is minima if there exists a
minima it's plotted guys come on what
are we doing come on let's do it let me
show you let me give you a small hint
okay so okay X square okay so this is
this is what the function looks like
okay so does it have a minima yes it has
a minima somewhere here and this minima
certainly lies between -2 and 0 so it
has a minima right it has a minimalistic
in the interval 0 sorry you have to just
check in the interval minus 2 to 0
somewhere in between somewhere here it
has a it has a 0 it has a minimum does
it have a Maxima does it have a Maxima
no it doesn't have a maximum because
this keeps increasing this keeps
increasing because X square keeps
increasing look at this you have X
square here as x increases X square
keeps increasing as x increases X square
keeps increasing
of course sine X will keep oscillating
between plus 1 and minus 1 but X square
will overtake very very quickly because
4 square is 16 your 16 plus some minus
value maximum minus 1 won't make it any
small right so this is continuously
increasing it'll keep increasing so
there is no Maxima to this there is only
minima of course you can use calculus to
derive that also Oh sounds good now let
me go into the next problem again I have
more problems that's why I am
I hope we can I have three more problems
Wow I have this problem is simple let's
do it grace okay so the problem is
simple okay I've started redrawing some
diagrams just in the interest of time
okay find if two circles intersect at
exactly one point or not okay so you
have three two circles again all this is
2d geometry I don't even want to go into
3d geometry all this is 2d geometry
right you are given two circles you have
to determine whether the circles
intersect or not
sorry whether the circles intersect at
exactly one point or not if the circles
intersect at exactly one point it is
often called as orthogonal circles again
we'll talk about orthogonality when we
discuss linear algebra that's why we
will discuss this in a lot more detail
but I thought let me not use some
complex terminology let's keep it simple
okay so okay so what are the three cases
the two circles may not intersect at all
the two circles can intersect at two
points or the two circles can intersect
exactly at one point there are three
cases here can anybody suggest how to
find you are given two circles you have
to determine if the two circles are
intersecting it whether this is the case
or one of these two is the case whether
this or not this that's what I want to
determine any suggestions any
suggestions let's go back here somebody
says won't the program become break
break even when the value of FX becomes
too small no the previous program no
because I'm only checking when up when
absolute value of slope of FX is this
right I'm not checking for f of X look
at this look at this line of code this
will only break when the slope of f of X
is very close to zero not when f of x
equals to zero it won't it won't you can
actually cross check this i shared this
i shared this with you by the end of
this you can try it you can modify the
functions and try to no it won't
right so let's go okay
one second one second people are writing
answers I'll have to read it okay it's
going too fast
if r1 plus r2 is less than the distance
between the between radii then circles
intersect okay I think most of you got
it I wanted to throw in an easy problem
it's actually very simple if you think
about it it's actually it's actually a
very very simple problem the problem is
this so take these two centers how do
you represent a circle first that's the
first question right
we represent a circle using the center
x-coordinate the center y-coordinate and
the radius right so you have this center
let's call it center one let's call the
center to center one has X Y R Center
two has X Y are you input them if the
distance between both of them is equal
to radius of 1 plus radius of 2 then
they both intersect at exactly one point
otherwise not within this if they if the
distance between this is if the distance
between both of them is more than this
radius Plus this radius then they don't
intersect at all if the distance between
this center and this is less than is
less than r1 plus r2 they will intersect
at two points that's it very simple
problem right right so very simple I
mean it's it's literally five lines of
code okay so somebody asked me about
input right we discussed about Python to
Python 3 in the first live session so I
ensured that we are in Python 3 enough I
wanted to show you the input function
once again that's the reason I picked a
simple problem okay this is trapezoid
method go down go down go down ok so we
are here so all I am doing here is again
please understand this map is a
beautiful tool ok map is a beautifully
elegant tool in Python it's inbuilt
function I shouldn't call it a tool I
should call it in built function map is
inbuilt function right what does it do
first it it executes this ok input
circle 1 dot split so what does this do
look at this my input takes in the input
suppose if I input let's say three point
zero zero point zero and three point
zero when I input this what happens it
is reading this the input reads it as a
string the split splits this into three
strings
this okay it is splitting this into
three strings right now what it will
give me the list of strings what it
gives me is a list of strings now on
this list of strings
what map does is on each of these lists
look in this on each of these so on each
of these strings it is apply the float
function which is a typecasting function
on each of these entries and you return
that okay right so for those of you who
who don't know map it's one of the most
beautiful things we explain it in our
course videos but if you don't know that
let me okay so let me show you the
documentation always documentation is
got okay so what does it say okay map
says my first parameter has to be the
function that I want to call the second
has to be an I terrible object we know
list is eye trouble so how does it work
if you give me an I terrible if you give
me a list if you give me one string
second string third string it will apply
this function on each of these and it
will return the output right again you
can read the whole description and
that's what it does exactly okay again
map is a beautiful function inbuilt
function map is by the way in built-in
Python I mean this is one of the most
widely used I mean if you see open
source code people use this left and
right again I think in one of the
previous live sessions one of the
students suggested this so I thought
I'll put it here
because it was a very good suggestion so
I get my circle one I get my circle two
now all I do here is I want to compute
the distance we know how to compute the
distance between two points we discuss
this in one of the previous life
sessions right center to X minus center
one X square
Center - why - Center one y squared
square root I'm done if d1 - if the
distance between circle one and circle 2
is equal to circle one radius plus
circle two radius print this or else
print or printed very simple again you
can test it I've intentionally given
this circle so that they intersect you
can try this very simple code Atilla
fine lines of code right one input again
if you just skip the prints
one input you can skip the print 1 2 3 4
5 7 lines okay sorry
not 5 lengths but 7 lines it's that
simple now let me complicate it and give
you a problem ok so the problem now is
imagine the two circles are intersecting
and you can easily determine this right
this is one circle this is another
circle let's say this is circle 1
this is circle 2 you can easily
determine I just discussed how to
determine this right take the distance
between both of them if d1 2 is less
than R 1 plus R 2 then you know that
they're intersecting in two points now I
want you to find these two points where
they intersect given the circles given
the circle centers and radius I want you
to find the coordinates again think
about it it's not rocket science this is
high school math guys to be honest with
you okay this is simple high school map
please try to figure it out on your own
what is the coordinate where they
intersect what is the coordinate then
they intersect you are given the centers
again sometimes you're asked these very
very simple problems because
interviewers again I've seen people ask
such a question in interviews the reason
such a question is asked is because
people want to see how do you think step
by step how do you think mathematically
step by step because for a machine
learning engineer tomorrow he has to
read more research papers he has to
think clearly from a geometry standpoint
now how can they think geometrically if
they cannot do a very simple geometry
problem again this is not rocket science
again this is I think we solve this in
ninth or 10th class when we learn
coordinate geometry we solved it maybe
11th class again I'm providing you a
link here with a worked out example but
please don't see this link try to figure
this out on your own now then write a
program it will also be like no more
than 10 lines write a program where if
you are given this Center and radius
this Center and radius this Center and
radius you output these two points very
simple please try to think about try to
solve it on your own simple puzzle right
nothing very complex okay 7:30 okay I
think we can finish the next problem
anything that we cannot finish to
we'll postpone it to tomorrow okay okay
there's a very good problem I love this
problem actually okay
so printed the first ten digits of a
factorial of a large number
okay so again okay I'll tell you the
history behind this problem I was asked
this question when I interviewed with
Yahoo Labs straight out of my ethnic
this was an interview problem that I was
personally asked and the way it worked
was they did up they did I think four or
five rounds of machine learning and they
took us to the Yahoo labs office and
they said okay guys here is a computer
in front of you the computer has C C++
Python Java Ruby all the major
programming languages if you want to use
the Internet that's okay but please
don't copy paste oh sorry we were not
allowed to use internet I'm sorry I
forgot they said any programming
language is okay I don't care but the
problem given to us was given a large
number let's assume I'm given a number
like 100 or 200 they said the factorial
of this number I want the first 10
digits of the factor of this because the
last 10 digits will mostly be zeros you
can think why they said the first 10
digits we want you to print and and the
the fun part was we were given like what
half a not so first they asked us ok
think about the solution come explain it
to one of the teammates and then once
you want to explain it to one of the
teammates will let you code you can code
in any programming language but we want
a working code with the algorithm
everything in under 30 minutes and you
have to show us the output this was long
long ago this was like in 2009 but this
shows you again Yahoo Labs was literally
the best place to work straight out of
college because they were building
Hadoop based machine learning in 2009 so
it was literally the bleeding edge of
machine learning in 2009 at least in
India right so I was fortunate I got
lucky I got in and all that again I
wrote the code I remember I was so bad
at programming at the end of my mtech
because I did pure Theory work I said
can I write code in MATLAB my my
interviewee is still a good friend of
mine he said no you can write you can
try it
MATLAB we don't have MATLAB you can
write in C I'm sure you have not
forgotten C so I actually wrote this
code in C programming language and it
thankfully it worked out okay okay so
okay so the interesting part is let's
try to do that in Python okay
so python has a very interesting thing
actually
I didn't realize it so first let's let's
write it down okay so this is actually a
real problem that I was that I was
personally asked almost a decade ago but
still a good problem even put it
problems don't become trivial right okay
so let's let's see so you I just wrote
my factorial like this it's a right rate
of algorithm very simple fact n R equals
to 1 1 1 to N right R star this
factorial 10 okay I'm getting factorial
10 very good no problem now just check
if the code is correct what is factor ok
factor 5 is 120 we know that right so
okay the code is working well I didn't
test it earlier actually ok factorial
tell we are getting it then I type fact
100 it is printing this bunch of digits
my first question was then I said factor
in thousand it printed all these digits
I said this question is useless no
because Python actually is doing it then
I started reading actually I didn't know
that it would do it I thought Python
would use a datatype like an integer or
a long if you remember all these are
data types in Python right and it would
have a limit it can't store more than
some bunch of digits right so it will
overflow it will give me some error all
that it will give me an error then I
started reading the documentation right
so I found this brilliant blog which
explains why such an error is not
happening right it's it's a very good
blog it tells you that this is a Python
internals block sometimes if you again
it is instances like these that will
teach you to read Python internals how
Python works internally so this is this
is Python 3 I think yeah so this is how
python stores numbers again python
internally uses c python to store
numbers internally use a c right so this
is this is the c structure those of you
who don't see this is how python
internally stores numbers ok again
people who go into python
source code or I should say Python
implementation of int the source code
behind Python those people will know it
so very interestingly since Python 3
there is no longer a simple integer type
all integers are represented as big num
look at is this important statement okay
all integers are represented as big num
so what nothing my question was what is
bignum you start reading again I want
you to read this this is all internal
implementation this is Python internal
implementation how python stores the
data internally using c at the end of
that is c is like a beautiful language
right so there is all these beautiful
internals if you have time please read
it but the lesson learned was Python
uses bignum right now and it can handle
arbitrarily large integers if the
integer initially was only ten digits
then you might multiply it with
something and it becomes a check twelve
digits it will automatically it can do
arbitrarily large number large number of
integers from Python 3 onwards right so
bignum is a is a concept in programming
which says that ok let's not create any
artificial limits to integers let them
grow as long as long as I can store
these digits as long as I can store
these digits in my RAM let it keep
growing why should I stop it right
that's the idea now ok then I said ok
this is cool things are much easier now
but then what if what if such an
implementation is not there what if what
if let's say let's take let's take a
case right what if python does not allow
arbitrarily large integers let's assume
pythons again I am using an integer here
right because I don't mention the
datatype here it will be an integer
again you can check the datatype always
so if you type print type factorial
thousand you get into it belongs to
class int I talked told you what is
class right internally the integer is
remembered as a class okay that's a
that's an interesting point
now what if bignum did not exist in
python what if we did not have it then
how do we do it right so what what I
mean by that is imagine in
imagine the programming language you are
using okay an integer cannot be more
than let's say ten digits let's just say
I'm just creating an artificial limit
here okay some ten digits are it has to
be less than some number something like
that in C I mean there are strict
conditions if you write code in C this
will break right so Java also has
something called as a big number but
Java integers will break right so
imagine if Python also had this
limitation
how would you now solve this problem any
suggestions any suggestions okay what if
it is defined as a recursive call even
if you define it as a recursive call
it's a problem right at the end of the
day look at this suppose if you write
fact and you wrote it you would wrote it
using recursion at the end of the day if
you are storing it in a data structure
or a data type which can only store ten
digits very quickly the factorial again
you have to keep calling this factorial
function right over and over again if
the variable that you have if the data
type that you have or the variable that
you have if it cannot cross ten digits
it can't store it if you use a
programming language like C C++ Java
many of these programming languages it
gives you something called as an
overflow error what it means is I can't
store such a large number here right so
you can try it with recursion it will
fail right so it will fail trust me you
can try it
I wrote again recursion has its own
headaches the recursion is not the most
optimal solution always but even if you
do it I mean okay so let's assume that
in Python just for simplicity Python 3
has made life simple but the way I twist
this I've asked this question to others
also
alright I've asked this question to
others as a simple programming exercise
ok so somebody says ok so people have
some ideas ok let's see huh ok Lincoln
list ok that's good ok somebody says
somebody is using data structures here
cool you're using a list again for those
of you who don't know what is a
linkedlist that's ok you can just look
for what a list is that's ok ok
of linkedlist as as a slight expansion
on the concept of list okay somebody
says we can use a linkedlist that's a
that's a very good idea without doubt
but let's say we can use lists okay
somebody says a by B equals to quotient
of a percent I a mod B which is equals
to reminder digit of num being added to
blah blah all that okay create the list
of digits of the factorial we can round
it we can use matrix or array yeah we
can use matrix array a list doesn't
matter don't worry I casting to begin
even begin long int all of them right
they'll have some limitation if I want
to compute thousand factorial the number
of digits is like massive all right so
begin to long and let's say you've no
debt no inbuilt datatype can handle the
large the maximum the use long you can
use anything right long also how many
digits can long store 30 digits i I
don't know I'll have to test it myself I
don't remember this at the top of my
mind whether you use big or big into
whatever it will have a limitation on
number of digits right suppose if my n
factorial with N equals two let's say
thousand right so N equals two some
10,000 has some 20,000 digits right
suppose if it has too many digits you
can you still can't store it in bigs or
begin to long in none of them how do you
use somebody says dynamic program and
how do you use dynamic programming dude
somebody says can we use log that's a
ingenious idea I thought of it good good
good good you can use log yes but again
log also we'll run into some problems
look at this okay so it's a good idea
Ramesh I'm thinking I like the thought
process so his idea here is this if you
have n into n minus 1 into n minus 2
into so on so forth up to 1 ok this is
what you want this is the result your
result is this so he says let's take log
on both sides ok log R equals 2 log of
this whole thing log of whole this whole
thing I can write it as log of n plus
log of n minus 1 plus because log of
product so log of product of things
become sum of logs right plus log 1
cool suppose I can compute log log log I
compute all of them right so what do I
get I get some number let's say I get
some number X so my log R equals 2x now
I want our how do i compute our are
equals to e power X now how do you
compute D power X now how do you compute
e power X X is so large
remember your ex your ex itself will be
quite large that a power X also can't be
computed because no data type can store
a power X temporarily that's the problem
here but it's a good idea I like the
thought process but it doesn't work in
this case it's a good idea because I
remember thinking of log when I was
solving this problem almost a decade
more than a decade ago
ok linkedlist is the solution yes let's
try strings blah blah blah ignore
multiples of 5 while calculating
factorial okay return it and store it as
a string print only 10 blah blah blah
okay I think some of you got the answer
I'm happy about it look at how we did it
as kids know so if you have to 36 x 4
how do you do it you multiply this digit
6 fours at 24 for you store 2 here 12
plus 2 14 1 8 + 1 9 so store each of
this against this just create an array
you can always resize arrays or you can
store this in a list you can store it in
an array whatever data structure you
want you can store it in a linked list
also for those of you who are suggesting
linkedlist you can store it like this 9
pointer for oh sorry sorry my bad
four pointer for null you can also store
it using a linked list those of you who
know what Lincoln lists are you can
store it in an array you can store it in
a list you can store it in a list all
you have to do now is you have to
redefine your multiplication the simple
multiplication so if you have two
variables the the multiplication that is
in the multiplication operator that is
there in Python will not work so you
will have to write a function called mul
look at this so I hope you got this
right this is what we all do it even if
you change
to hexadecimal anything the same problem
occurs you can change it to binary also
doesn't matter all this this problem
continues whichever encoding you use
right it doesn't matter the problem
stays the same so let's solve it in bind
in in decimal because all of us
understand decimal so what we have to do
here is we have to define a function
called mul which will take let's say you
know I'm using eros okay which will take
an array as an input and which will take
an another number right let's call this
let's call this array as a it will take
B as input and what should it return it
is now multiply a with B by going ITER
ativ li again you have to write a for
loop inside this I am NOT writing this
solution because I want you to write it
on your own but I'll give you the
intuition in here what do you do again
we are representing a number using an
array if if the number of digits
increases you just create a new array &
store that delete the old array or
resize the array all right suppose I
have a here some 236 and my B is 4 I
want to multiply both of them so what do
I do I write a for loop I write a for
loop wherein I first get 6 how do I get
6 here from 236 to 36 mod 10 gives me 6
or mod 10 power 1 gives me 6 right 236
mod 100 gives me 36 look at this to 236
mod 100 gives me okay actually I don't
even need mods you know I'm sorry I'm
sorry because this is in an array so
first I take the first element of the
array so let's assume let's assume this
is 0 1 2 I take the last element 6 I
multiply with 4
what do I get I get 24 right six fours
are 24
so my loop will go from the last element
to the first element right my loop will
go from 2 1 0 this is how my loop will
be right so this is all my again I'm not
writing the code here I wanted to write
the code my loop will go from the least
significant digit to the most
significant digit I multiply my B with
the least significant digit whatever I
get I paste it here
I keep carrying though so the same thing
that we did right 6 for 20 for the carry
I will copy it somewhere I'll create a
variable called carry and copied here
like carry is 2 then I multiplied with
the last digit then I multiplied with
the last but one three fours are 12 plus
2 14 so for my carry is 1 4 2 0 8 + 1 9
I got 944 so now my result is also an
array of size 3 right so what do I do
here I take this array I modified to 36
to 944 right and I return 944
or I can create one more array again
just make sure that your deallocating
memory you're removing arrays from
memory
you're just clearing it just ensure that
you are clearing up memory right so
that's all that's all there is
please increase the zoom on your screen
I hope I'm writing it in a very big fun
so I hope this is OK no so I don't want
to use linkedlist because you don't need
it here you can also do it using
linkedlist it's the same code now the
logic is the same the logic is in if you
are you if you are see if you are if you
want to write this in C you can always
store this as a linked list with well
the least significant digit here suppose
if I want to store 236 always store 6
here then 3 here then 2 here right
because this is a singly linked list
which are starting from here to here
right so what doesn't increase the time
complexity doesn't it increase the time
complexity what increases the time
complexity I didn't understand this
anyway so I didn't understand didn't
understand ok ok I don't know what you
didn't understand so it's very simple no
so the code that I explained you here
see you basically replicate this logic
is the same again I'm trying to explain
the logic your implementation if you
want to write it and see the
implementation will be different you can
write doubly linkedlist whatever you
want to do do it guys doesn't matter you
can use an array you can use a list you
can use a linked list a singly linked
list a doubly linked list doesn't matter
ok if I were writing this code in C I
will most likely write it using doubly
linked list or singly linked list if I
am writing it in Python
doesn't matter because I can resize my
arrays in Python dynamically python
gives me a lot of flexibility I can also
resize my list if I'm doing it in Python
I can do it using arrays and lists why
bother about singly linked lists and
doubly linked lists we don't know the
size of the array good question that's
why I'm saying Ari so let me give an
example imagine if my number is 544 okay
you can read this as an array you can
think of it as a list or a linkedlist
doesn't matter right now this you
multiply okay with let's say six when
you multiply with six what happens okay
so my input here is let's say an array
of size three this number is here so
what do i it is six fours are 24 - 6 4
24 - 24 plus 2 is 26 30 32 so what is my
output now my output is not an array of
size 3 it is an array of size 4 so what
do I do to save space I create an array
of size 4 right and I clean up this
array from memory ID allocate this array
from memory and I return this Aronoff
now somebody's asking how does this how
does this connect to the problem ok so
let me explain this I think I think you
could connect the dots but let me
explain this so what is the problem here
you started off with you want to
multiply let's say I want thousand
factorial suppose I want thousand factor
how do you get thousand factorial you
multiply thousand you start with one
first ok you start with 1 1 multiplied
by 2
you always store your results in an
array or a list or a singly linked list
whatever - right so you got to cool now
we want to multiply 2 with 3 but instead
of multiplying 2 with 3 you just call
this function mul with 2 comma 3 what
does this function return this function
returns again an array a linkedlist
whatever way again I'm going to assume
that you're storing everything using an
array and arrays are resizable in your
programming language if they are not
resizable please use a linkedlist
or adopt singly or doubly linked lists
depending on a programming language
right so you got 6 now now again you
will call mul 6 comma 4 you'll keep
calling this right so my for loop will
fact n is my father look will look like
this let me change the color slightly my
father look will look like this fact n
is for I equals two okay I'm writing
pseudocode here write for I equals to 1
to n right mul okay so first I have to
create I have to create this area right
so 4 ie so my result I'll have to create
a result first okay let me write this
down let me write it on a fresh sheet I
think that's better
so fact n is my function first I create
an array okay so my result is let's say
an array I just create it let's say
array of size 10
okay I'll create some array of size 10
I'll start with size 10 I'll initialize
everything to zeros okay I'll initialize
it simple no I'll say for I equals to 1
to n again I am writing pseudo code here
not Python code okay you can easily
translate this to Python code okay
R equals 2
okay so I'll have carries also all the
time carries will initially be 0 so okay
carry will be 0 ok so let's do this okay
R equals 2 okay let me do this
so what I want here is okay I don't want
this also so my mum is defined as
follows
okay my R comma C my result and if there
is a carry if there is a carry if my
result is more than 10 digits this is a
this is basically an array of size 10
right if my result in this loop if I get
a result which is more than 10 digits if
it's more than 10 digits I'll get my
carry so I will say mul right what am i
what am i passing here mul are most of
my are I'll initialize to 1 instead of
initializing it to so mul I'll
initialize it to 1 right so my are so
mul R comma I right so here I don't have
to do 1 to n I will just say 2 to N so
what does this result in this returns
look at this what does it return it
returns again I'm passing R so it will
modify
itself so in the mull function in the
mph on my R gets modified my R whatever
is the initial value it gets multiplied
by I write the result is stored in there
okay instead of doing that right so the
result is not stored in our again I have
to I have to output two things I have to
output an array and our carry now if if
this multiplication crosses this if this
multiplication cannot be held in ten
digits what do I do if my carry is
greater than zero that means I got a
carry from this multiplication then I
will recreate new memory for our look at
this because ten digits were not
sufficient I'll say whatever is the size
of this I'll double the size then I will
get a bigger arena right and whatever
were the elements here I will copy all
of them to this and you keep doing it
this right I hope again there are pieces
in this to be realized the reason I am
not writing the actual code what if
there is more than two anyway I'll come
there
so first the reason I want you guys to
figure this out
imagine if there is no big num how do
you solve this problem I want you to
figure it out again there is solution
available what I want you to do is this
please do not see this solution till you
have the solution or you have spent at
least three hours on this problem again
the reason I want you to spend at least
three hours is after explaining the
logic it will take you some time to
figure out how to allocate memory or how
to allocate an array how to deallocate
mmm array all of that lot of which we
have covered in the course videos but I
want you to figure it out if you don't
know it just google search for it
right it's just a Google search away how
to reallocate so there's also this
concept called reallocating memory so we
allocate memory by thumb right so you
can always memory allocation is an
important task here so this task again
depends on your implementation but if
you know memory allocation and
reallocation this is trivial I want you
to figure it out if you are not sure the
solution is available here but please
don't look at the solution till the time
you've spent at least three hours on
this problem
or you have found the solution yourself
right I hope that is clear right
we are 749 we have one more question
Mali's multiply yes mul wants to do
multiply what if we get a carry from
multiply that's what I told you right if
you get a carry from multiply you assign
a larger are enough you basically take
this array R is our Ark is made of array
look at this R is made of an array of 10
elements you now create a new array
again call it our or yuri yuri allocate
memory yuri reallocate memory for this
array instead of size 10 make it size 20
double the size or just increase the
size if you get a carry what does it
mean it means the data is not you're not
able to fit that in this in this array
so what do you want to do you want to
increase the space and I get don't
forget to copy the carry in the
increased space right don't forget to
copy the carry in increased space again
this problem is all about memory
allocation and de-allocation memory
allocation and de-allocation in python
if you are not sure just read up about
it if you know it it should be simple
why are taking one in last where is our
taking one oh this one because if you
take it zero multiplying anything with
zero will give you zero no that's why I
put it one I told you right so what does
this result it will multiply R with I
and place the result in R itself right
so this is exactly this so that is
exactly equivalent to this code the eye
trait of code that we wrote no oh look
at this why is R equals to 1 here it's
the same logic if R equals to 0 somebody
is asking this question right if R
equals to 0 you can answer 0 because you
are multiplying everything with zero in
factorial you don't multiply things with
0 no so that's the reason okay so there
is solution available please spend some
time again we have one more problem very
interesting problem I want to finish
this I hope you can spend 15 more
minutes on this I promise you I will so
I will finish this problem ok everyone
okay with that
is this classes are for people whoever
what is yeah you can use in what if we
use lists and delete the old one yes you
can do that it will just create more I
mean you can do it nothing stops you
from doing that right yeah you can do
that not a problem is this classes for
all people or those are just for demo so
the purpose again Santosh I think you
don't get the purpose we made it an
announcement right so the basic Python
videos and Python problems I wanted to
share it with everyone that's why they
are publicly available but the idea here
is that I'm assuming that you know
basics of Python I mentioned this in the
previous sessions also if you do not
know Python you may not understand a lot
of what I am discussing in this live
session right so I'm assuming that you
already know Python so how will you get
karey you can of course that that's a
that depends on how you implement your
code know you get karey because you have
to implement your mul function the small
function you implement such that if the
result cannot be fit in are your output
you you output C again functions can
output multiple values if you are not
sure of that please read up about
functions that can result multiple
values in Python functions can do that
okay it's a very simple concept just
Google for it it functions can return
multiple values if that's your question
right so let's go to the last question
today again this is a last question in
mathematical programming this is a
question that was asked to one of our
students recently when he was
interviewing with IBM Research it's a
very popular question the question here
is you have to estimate the value of pi
all you can use is the formula of the
area of a circle and the circumference
of a circle we all know this right the
area of a circle we all know that the
area of circle is PI R square and
circumference is 2 pi R we all know this
this is the only definitions that you
can use of course if you are if you are
if you are an engineering student I
there are infinite series expansions of
Phi Phi you can't use any of that
the problem is simple you have to
estimate the value of pi using only two
factors only two concepts that the area
of a circle is PI R square that the
circumference of a circle is 2 pi R
right again those of you who don't know
pi was initially defined in the ancient
world as the ratio of circumference by
diameter diameter is nothing but 2 R
right so the definition of pi is pi is
the ratio of circumference by to
diameter that's the mathematical
definition of pi pi it is not 3.14 this
is the definition of Pi 3.14 is is an
approximate value that pi takes right so
you can only use these two facts and you
have to estimate the value of pi it's an
actual interview question actually it's
a it's a simple question it's not a
rocket science question but it's a good
question I like it because it's a very
app again this was asked for a machine
learning engineer role at IBM Research
not IBM development this IBM research
lamps ok no you can I mean given any
circle
somebody says 2207 come on I mean it's
not that simple right so somebody says
do we have area and circumference given
yes I mean you can take any radius and
you get area and circumference right is
this intermediate Python I don't know
what intermediate Python means I'm just
assuming that you know the basics of
Python and I'm solving a bunch of
problems again I never understood when
people say advanced Python intermediate
Python I think these are definitions
created by people just for the sake of
it I don't know what is intermediate
Python to be honest with you ok
I don't agree with you in the condition
that if C is greater than 0 reallocate
memory again there are multiple ways of
solving the factorial problem the
earlier problem it's up to you there are
multiple ways all that I've shown you is
one such way you can define it in
multiple ways
again please feel free to write your
code and make it work that's all we care
about assume value of area and
circumference ok area
is your not no no one second one second
area is safe okay so you're assuming
that somebody gave you both the area
okay I know I know where you're headed
so the assumption somebody was making a
good interesting interesting way of
looking at it
somebody said that okay imagine it for a
circle I am given both the area and the
circumference then how do you compute it
or you can do it you can do it you get
it PI square I know it now that's not
what I meant
okay so if somebody gave you
circumference and area of a circle right
they already computed this then he's
saying I'll take C square which is 4 PI
square R square divided by area which
make it PI R square so R square R square
gets cancelled pi PI gets cancelled I
get 4 pi so I'll take this I'll divide
it by 4 I get PI I know where you are
going but that's not that's not the
intent you are given the formula for C
you're given the formula you are given
the formula for area and formula for
circumference that's all you're given
you don't have to derive them from first
principles again deriving them is not so
easy okay I mean it's a good interview
question also especially so one of the
interesting question is the definition
of pi is circumference by 2r this is a
mathematical definition using this
definition prove that the area of a
circle is PI R square who told you this
how did this come to we all were taught
in our I think sixth grade seventh grade
but this is the area we all remember it
by heart right we all just remembered it
now this is the definition this is a
definition of pi so definitions we have
to remember but can you arrive at the
formula for area I mean that's that's a
good interesting question it's not hard
it's just 11th class mathematics or
actually even in class math anyway I'm
not going there
so you're just given the formula and you
have to figure it out some of you have
told the answer I'm not pointing them
right now find area by trapezoid rule
and divide by r square oh that's an
interesting idea very good I love this
idea
oh wow this is good thought how do you
find the area using trapezoid rule haha
okay okay so you're writing the equation
of the curve okay I got it I got it I
got it
ha ha so you're saying I'll find okay so
let's take say mister
this is a good idea room or I should I
should I don't good idea so your idea
here is we know the equation of the
circle so let's take the semicircle
let's compute this area interesting
using episode rule cool so you get the
area using trapezoid rule so area of the
semicircle is PI R square by 2 so this
area you computed using trapezoid rule
this area is this you know what is the
radius anyway so you will say a to a by
R square will be equal to PI cool that's
one idea very good very good very good
very good
this is this interesting I mean I didn't
think of it to be honest with you
yes that's good I don't know if others
have also suggested it very good
suggestion okay this is one way well I
didn't think of it okay probably if I
asked this question in my interviews I
would have learned more ways but cool I
like this anything else yeah I got it I
got it I got it I got the point
okay integration interval okay say using
integrations all of that somebody
mentioned okay pratik mentioned can we
use monte carlo approach that's a good
idea so let me introduce you to
something called as monte carlo
approaches i won't introduce a concept
also concept is simple okay
again the the ingenious idea is use
random numbers okay so let me explain
those of you who don't know again monte
carlo sounds like some advanced math it
is common sense okay so we have used
monte carlo methods in our course videos
also
so in our hypothesis testing chapter
those of you who have seen that we have
talked about permutation tests so we
have talked about permutation test if
you recall in our hypothesis test in
probability statistics but mutation test
is one of the ways of using monte carlo
approaches monte carlo approaches is a
big area in physics again this came from
a bunch of brilliant mathematicians the
idea is simple okay the idea is to use
randomization again i will provide you
some reference links but let me tell you
that let me tell you the approach
instead of telling you the theory now
approach is this imagine I have a
Circle like this first of all let's draw
our rectangle okay let me change the
color here it's like okay I have a
rectangle here okay this is a unit
rectangle which means this is width is
one square not rectangle I'm sorry
anyway a square is also a rectangle is
also a square so it's okay so it's a
unit square
all right this side is 1 this side is 1
within this unit square if I draw a
circle what is the radius of this circle
now what is the radius of this circle
the radius of this circle will be 0.5
what is the area of this circle okay
first let's say what is the area of this
what is the area of the square area is
equal to 1 what is the area of this blue
circle area of this circle your R is 0.5
so PI into R square
what is 0.5 square 0.25 right which
means by 4 this is the area so first
observation right first observation is
the area of this circle right is PI by 4
so suppose if I if I take okay let me
just name these things okay so let me
just name them so area of the square and
area of the circle okay so if I do
area of the square by area of circle or
the other way around sorry
so if I do area of circle if I do area
of circle by area of square what do I
get I get PI by 4 so 4 times this what
do I get I get PI right 4 times just
simple area of square is 1 area of this
circle again this Square and this circle
is PI by 4 so 4 times area of this
circle by area of this square because
this is 1 no 4 PI into 4 is PI so this
is one fact so let's write this down
right 4 times area of this circle by
area of the square equals 2 pi that's a
fact let's keep that very important fact
now what Monte Carlo approaches tell you
is this very ingenious ok
they tell you what if I have a way
throwing random darts okay what is the
dark okay let me show you what is a dot
okay it's better to show you an image
such you may just okay or just let me do
dot dot Sardis okay this is a dot right
you know what is a dot know right so the
thing that you throw so imagine we have
we have a way suppose suppose this is
the board I'm throwing darts suppose I'm
a random dot thrower
okay important imagine if I'm a random
I'm randomly throwing dots but I'm
randomly throwing them such that all the
da all the dots fall in this region
right all the dots or all these arrows
that I throw they just use the word
arrows right all the arrows that I throw
will are guaranteed to fall in the
square
some of them will fall in this region
some of them will fall outside this
region but remember this is a random dot
thrower
what is a random dot thrower the chances
that it will fall anywhere is this is is
is uniform again we'll discuss about
uniform distributions later it can fall
anywhere in this region sorry anywhere
in this whole region so it can fall
anywhere in this whole region with same
probability but it is a random it can
fall anywhere that's why the randomness
right so that's why the randomness it is
guaranteed to fall in this region right
some of them will fall in this some of
them will fall out changes but the throw
itself is random now how do i generate a
random dot or a random arrow using
random numbers imagine if I create two
random numbers such that this random
number Falls is a random number between
0 and 1 this is also a random number
between 0 and 1 ok this is a random
number between 0 and 1 this is also a
random number between 0 and 1 wouldn't
that be equivalent to and whatever
coordinate that I get ok so what did I
do here I took two I took two values
this
random number generated from 0 to 1 this
is random number generated from 0 to 1
this corresponds to the x-axis this
corresponds to the y-axis now if I
generate 2 such random numbers I get a
point right so I can use this point
which is generated randomly this is a 2d
point randomly generated why is it
randomly generated because this is
randomly generated from 0 to 1 this is
also randomly generated from 0 to 1
because this is from 0 to 1 this is from
0 to 1 I am guaranteed that this this
whole pot this whole thing falls within
this square it is guaranteed it is
guaranteed that the whole thing falls in
this square but it is also guaranteed
that because there generated using
random numbers this is the beauty of
Montecarlo approaches because they're
generated with random numbers the number
of dots suppose if I throw some 10,000
dots or if I throw 10,000 arrows
what percentage of them will fall within
the circle and what percentage of them
will fall outside the circle that's the
idea here
look at this because because the dot can
hit anywhere in this square randomly
right right the the number so suppose if
n is my number of throws suppose I have
20,000 times let's say you know off
these 10,000 times some M times the dot
fell within the circle we can verify
whether the dot fell in a circle or not
right very simple take the distance
between both of them if the distance
between both of them is less than equal
to this radius radius is 0.5 then I know
that the dart fell within the circle
very simple if M see look at this of the
10,000 times if M times it falls in the
circle this M is proportional to the
area of the circle that is the leap
right because you're throwing it you
look at it you're throwing a dart you're
throwing you're throwing throwing
throwing throwing throwing because this
covers some area how much area does this
cover it covers pi by 4 what is the
total area total area is 1 because this
covers area of pi by 4 this ratio will
be
as the ratio of Emmys to M look at this
this ratio will be same as this because
my random my dart thrower is random
within this region
he's throwing randomly some Dutch right
so now what I do here is I create a
simulation
okay Monte Carlo these are also called
as Monte Carlo simulations because what
am I doing here
10,000 times 10,000 times I am
generating a pair of random numbers and
calling it a point let's call this a
point P 10,000 times I'll randomly
generate for each of these points I'll
compute whether it's in the circle or
outside the circle right 10,000 times
I'll keep counting my M is basically a
count my M is basically a count which
will count how many times out of this
10,000 times this fell within the circle
right very simple now I know that pi by
4 is 2 1 is same as M is 2 N and I know
n is let's say 10,000 now I already
using the simulation I can measure how
many times I got it here this ratio is
PI by 4 to 1 right this ratio I know
already or you can write this ratio also
as pi is 2 4 now here here I got 10,000
times this ratio is same as this ratio
right suppose I got some M times here
now since this ratio should be equal to
this ratio PI by 4 should be equal to M
by n right n equal to 10,000 now now I I
know 4/4 is a constant I got em through
this simulation through this random
simulation n is the number of times I
through the duct using these I can
compute PI so this is what is called as
a Monte Carlo similar it's a fancy name
again Monte Carlo simulations are a
beautiful topic in mathematics I spent
his assists typically study it and okay
so let me show you this so these are
approximations of Pi I'm sorry there is
there is Monte Carlo simulation
somewhere I okay so here is a Monte
Carlo simulation okay so this is a Monte
Carlo simulation it explains what is a
Monte Carlo method all of that stuff
again the classic example this is how
it's taken
instead of taking a whole circle they
just took a 1/4 of a circle there
randomly generating points they're
seeing how many points again very nice
simulation all that they're saying is
how many points lies within this quarter
circle this is a quarter of a circle
right how many points are lying outside
of it based on that they're getting it
so a Monte Carlo approach basically says
first define the domain of possible
inputs again it's a very general method
it's used in so many places in physics
in mathematics computer science etc I
told you right permutation testing is
one example so if you go to applied
statistics look at this they they
clearly mention this where is it okay so
to to provide implementations of
hypothesis tests that are more efficient
than exact tests such as permutation
tests again permutation test is one
example there are other there are there
are other distributions also so this
whole area Monte Carlo methods are a
very broad topic we are just using this
here of course I really like the
solution that I don't provided earlier
using area under the curve that's a
brilliant idea but this is another idea
I want to show you the power of
randomization okay so if you want to
read more there are many other ways of
computing the area of the circle right
so that's that's this approximations of
pipe there are algorithms from
prehistoric almost like from early
history to modern day there are hundreds
of algorithms one of the simplest
algorithms is the Monte Carlo approach
again the Monte Carlo approach or the
Monte Carlo method is interesting
because it tests your understanding of
random numbers right you're doing a very
simple simulation right it's a beautiful
thing in itself again in an interview if
you cannot come up with this but if you
came up with something completely
different solution that's okay but I
wanted to introduce a new concept right
in mathematics because the series here
is mathematical programming okay let's
go let's go
so I'm just importing random this
function basically says whether my point
X comma Y so my circle is fixed now my
circle is fixed my circle Center again
this is OK
let's go to this diagram my circle
Center one second
once again I think I did a mistake
somewhere oh the circuit I think I did a
small mistake somewhere okay so what is
the circle center here the circle Center
x-axis is 0.5 y-axis is 0.5 alright
that's a circle Center and the radius
itself is 0.5 yes this is point five
this is point I think there is a small
bug in my code let me fix it as we go
okay so whether the point X Y is in a
circle or not so that's simple right so
I just I think I I did a small mistake
here but that's okay we'll fix it
quickly so if X - okay so if X so the C
the whether the point is within the
circle or not is what we are trying to
determine right so X so given a point X
comma Y I want to determine whether it's
in a circle or not so minus 0.5 so this
tells me so this gives me X minus center
square Y minus center square - this
whole thing I have to compute the square
root all right so - this whole thing I
have to compute the math dot square root
so let me input math also or I must have
already imported it okay input math so
math dot square root okay so what did I
do enough I computed the distance of a
given point from the center if the
distance is less than equal to what is
my radius my radius is point five then
return true else return false right this
is my in circle function okay I didn't
test it because I ran out of time
actually okay so let's see okay so this
is cool right math dot square root X -
the center so this indentation is
correct or so this parenthesis are
correct this parenthesis is correct this
parenthesis math word square root okay
so I don't need this so I don't need
this okay so I don't need this also okay
so this parenthesis is matching this
cool so square root of x - Center x
squared + y - Center y squared
if this square root of this basically I
am saying that if the point is less than
0.5 distance away from the circle Center
then it is inside the circle or else
it's object
so it's basically determining whether
the point XY is within the circle or not
okay then I'm creating this count in
circle number of points I'm counting the
number of points which are inside the
circle as zero I am doing these many
iterations very simple for I in range n
I am randomly generating a I'm randomly
generating the x-axis I'm randomly
generating the y-axis now I am saying if
this is true if that randomly generated
point is in the circle then I'm counting
it right so my count in circle is
nothing but my M my count circle is
nothing but M M by n into four should
give me pi because M by N equals two PI
by 4 right we discussed this earlier
right
so I'm printing this as my value of pi
let me see if this code works or else
we'll write some simple test cases okay
so there is a problem somewhere written
Falls bla bla bla what is happening here
mmm 4i okay okay so oh yes okay I'm
getting three point one four one four
good let me just do this a little less
what happens enough three point one nine
if I'm increasing it what happens again
I have to write test cases for this okay
as I'm increasing it takes more time
obviously as my n increases it takes
more time okay let's just wait for a
minute okay three point one four one
nine blah blah blah yeah it makes sense
this is cool right again the whole Monte
Carlo simulation is a beautiful idea
once you get the idea the concept is
simple look at is what are we doing here
we have this we have this we have this
that's it now this whole idea is very
powerful in general because again you
can read okay so let me additional okay
you can read more about Monte Carlo
simulations it's a it's a very big topic
I mean I can teach I mean I've learned
Monte Carlo simulations during my
Master's days and I've spent I mean this
is like a multi lecture problem right
it's not I mean even at a master's at a
graduate level if you take numerical
methods and numerical simulations there
could be four or five
just on Monte Carlo methods right so now
imagine this method can be extended to
finding areas of any random shape
suppose imagine imagine this black area
I want to find the area of this blacks
black region area of this black region
area of this black region of course I
can use the integration based method
shortly right I can say okay first I
will compute the area above this they'll
compute the area below this I'll add
both of them that's one eight that's one
idea
but as long as I have this function
which says in in black region as long as
somebody can write this function for me
wherein I give the x and y coordinate
and you can tell me whether the point is
inside the black region or not as long
as somebody can write this function and
give me this function if somebody can do
this I can apply my simple Monte Carlo
approach I can simply apply my Monte
Carlo approach again this diagram has
been taken from scratch pixel I also
have the reference link here please go
check it out and okay so this is one way
of computing pi
there are other ways I just wanted to
touch upon one and then we'll close it
out so earlier before modern computing
all of that I think the ancient Greeks
and I'd have to look up the Wikipedia
links so people actually tried this I
think where is a 96 sided okay again you
can read up all of this I mean there is
there is a ton of there is I mean there
lot of mathematicians you have tried
this ancient times middle times careless
school of astronomy and mathematics
madhava I mean they're phenomenal
mathematicians who have tried this
across the world not just in India area
but everybody right I mean people from
the Chinese mathematicians from German
or sorry from from Archimedes from the
Greek mathematicians everybody tried
this right so one very elegant approach
is this again I just wanted to touch
this touch upon this because it because
of the beauty of the mathematics in this
or the beauty of the idea so the ancient
mathematician said okay circumference by
2r is PI we don't know what pi is so
they said let's draw a circle let's draw
a square inside the circle right square
has four sides so let's say K equals
for four sites they said the
circumference of this okay so let me use
a different color so this okay so they
said the circumference what is the
circumference it is this four sides
right they measure these four sides they
summed up the four sides and they said
this for the sum of these four sides is
a good approximation it is a basic
approximation to the circumference of
the circle and they knew this circle
radius so initially they took k equals
to four they got a circle so they got a
square so they measured this length Plus
this length Plus this length Plus this
length they use this as an approximation
to circumference and they already knew R
because they drew this circle right so
circumference bed - er they got one
value of pi they said okay why should i
approximate only with a four-sided
polygon what if I use a five sided
polygon this is a Pentagon this is a
Pentagon right so then they approximate
it with a Pentagon when you approximate
with a Pentagon you know that all of
these points these five points this five
vertices lie on the circle right and you
also know that they have to be if you
want if you want a Pentagon that is that
is same same length sides what is it
called uniform Pentagon I forgot some of
this terminology from high school man
okay so anyway that's okay so if I want
this if I want this Pentagon such that
all these sides are same right I want
these angles this side this will be at
theta this will be a Theta this will be
theta this will be a theta this will be
at theta and this theta will be 360 by
five because I have to find five
vertices one vertex second vertex third
vertex fourth what to expect vertex so
they've they've now embedded a Pentagon
right a Pentagon of same sides same side
length into a circle now if they
computed the circumference of the
Pentagon this Plus this Plus this Plus
this Plus this now this is a better
approximation than the square to the
circumference this five sides sum is a
better approximation than the four side
son then they said why should we stop
with
let's go to hexagons so then they drew
the six-sided hexagons right then what
is this theta love first I fix a point
here then how much should I go before I
find the next one again I know that the
length of this the length of this the
length of this the length of this the
length of this all of them I'll try to
make it make them the same so that
becomes easier then I just have to
measure this length and then multiply it
by six to get the whole circumference so
they said if I keep drawing these first
I start with a four-sided pen a
four-sided polygon then a five-sided
polygon six sided polygons seven sided
polygons if I go up to 100 sided polygon
I think the Greek mathematicians tried
it with some 96 or not 96 or so I have
to look up the key period I think so
they realize that as K increases the
circumference a time again it's easy to
compute circumference because I will
just measure this and multiply it by six
because all these are the same angles
look at this this triangle and this
triangle are equal it ar-ar-ar-ar are
exactly the same right so this triangle
is same as this triangle because this
side and decide are the same this side
and this side are the same if these two
angles are the same this length and this
length also will be the same right so
they just have to measure this length
multiplied by six they got the
circumference similarly they tried with
seven eight nine etc finally they came
up with an approximation to pi which is
very very accurate right so you can also
solve this problem not just using again
one idea that that's the Darwin and
other suggested is to use area the other
is to use Montecarlo approach right the
other is to use this approximations
using polygons right so there many such
methods again so some some of you have
emailed me and asked me about some
additional resources so again first and
foremost we'll cover more mathematical
and numerical algorithms in the future
life sessions we have whole of linear
algebra we have whole of statistics
again we'll look at more Montecarlo
approaches also in the future
we have linear algebra probability
statistics optimization and every major
machine learning algorithm and every
major machine learning algorithm is a
form of mathematical programming right
so one thing that we'll do extensively
throughout these live sessions is more
and more and more and more of
mathematical programming that's why I
spent so much time numerical numerical
okay
again there is no type correction there
is no spellcheck here so I keep making
these mistakes but if some of you are
interested there is a very nice course
at Brown University I think B way I
think is brown so just check out a bunch
of lecture notes I also Google such and
I found this book I have not read this
book but the syllabus or the or the
contents looked good the best place to
learn more about numerical methods is to
read side by and numpy reference
tomorrow's live session will spend on
strings and regular expressions right we
have done mathematical programming for a
couple of days again tomorrow's live
session is also open to everyone I just
I just put out a live session
announcement again I will not make a
video I just put out a live session
public to everyone please attend it
tomorrow please refresh strings and
regular expressions because this is
extremely important again we'll cover
some examples when we cover natural
language processing we'll cover many
more string operations and regular
expressions and advanced operations
later tomorrow we'll just limit
ourselves to basic Python programming
strings and regular expressions the live
sessions tomorrow 6 to 8 right so please
I again yesterday and today I wanted to
give you a good overview of mathematical
programming assuming that you don't know
much of advanced mathematics or maybe
you've forgotten some basic mathematics
from your school also if some of it is
complex
please refer the MIT additional material
that I give you and try to solve the
exercise problems I just wanted to
expose you to or introduce you to a
bunch of mathematical tools that are
extremely important and extremely useful
to understand and to think for a machine
learning engineer right
I will provide this I will provide this
ipython notebook and a pdf version of it
in a few min
it's just under the live session right
so thank you folks
so we'll we'll conduct so somebody is
asking about future life sessions again
all the basic Python stuff which do not
require it's called a regular pentagon
thank you thank you Barger
I was thinking uniform regular is the
word right so the future life sessions
that we will conduct so the future life
sessions anything that does not require
you to go through our course anything
that that requires only basic Python
programming will keep them in the public
domain will do public life sessions
since I expect anybody who knows buy
basic Python programming to know strings
and regular expressions you don't have
to know some advanced mathematics are
and my probability or anything you just
need to know basic programming so we are
continuing to keep this open to all but
as we progress through these live
sessions there will be some that we will
have to limit only to our students
because they'll have to go through
course videos we use the same notation
the same code examples without that you
will not be able to understand right so
I'm from pharmacy whatever your giving
content is it enough again the objective
of these live sessions let's make it
very clear I've made it multiple times
it is to introduce you to multiple
programming problems right again I told
you write a couple of these problems
were actually asked in interviews right
again even yesterday's problems and
today's problems some modified versions
of them I have asked in my own
interviews so best book for Python pick
any book man just google search for
Python book for beginners if you're a
beginner right so you'll get tons of
books best Python books okay Python for
beginners okay why I buy a book there is
this nice tutorial by Python datura June
you know very nice tutorial just get
started with this right so tons of
simple examples completely again if
you're completely new to programming
they'll give you learning so the lot of
a lot of publically available good
material for Python so please please see
that right sounds good somebody says
shall I join TCS for one year until I
finish the
please don't quit your jobs if you have
a job offer please don't ignore it
please join in the job I've been telling
this ever since we started applied a
course please don't quit your job and
prepare for a jobs nothing what's then
that if you cannot prepare while working
you're not up to the task let's be
honest today right or somebody says can
we use the same Montecarlo approach for
finding yes you can protect good
question UK again the Montecarlo
approach is a non integration based
approach for finding area under some
diagram or some shape or some curve it's
a completely different approach it's a
non integration based approach which
uses probability yes you can no doubts
about it any math resources to learn
that's what I'm giving I shared this
document at the end again if you want to
learn more advanced mathematical
concepts more advanced numerical methods
again there is no limit to it I have
taken a numerical methods course in my
BTech I've taken a numerical methods
course in my home deck this is literally
like what two semesters worth of course
so again I don't think I'm that good at
numerical methods my understanding is
still basic I've seen phenomenal guys
right but here are good resources it's a
good I just google searched I like the
contents in this book there are also a
bunch of lecture notes I mean if you can
if you have followed through these
videos again these videos will be on
YouTube so you can watch them I'll
provide the ipython notebook just like
everyday I will provide it just give me
a few minutes after this live session
I'll do it right some good folks okay
that's all I had
see you tomorrow I'm sorry I ate into
your dinner time for some of you it's
already 8:30 but see you tomorrow I'll
try to keep it I'll try to end it at
8:00 from tomorrow
