I'm just trying to go live give it give
me a couple of minutes right let's just
see if everything is working all right
as we expect okay I'm just trying to see
if everything is as expected just give
me a couple of minutes okay
I guess I'm life yeah I can also hear
myself fairly clearly so no issues
whatsoever
hey good morning everyone so yeah let's
wait for others to join in as usual I've
come a little early a very good morning
folks thanks for joining in as usual
I've come little early just to ensure
that there are no technical hiccups
before we get started since I'm little
early we'll start the session just after
10:00 a.m. so if you have any question a
I in general right so that other
students who have joined the live
session also would benefit
hey good morning folks thanks for
joining in so somebody says he's a BSC
stat student what could be the average
compensation that he can expect again as
a BSC stat student I'm assuming that
your your statistics knowledge is pretty
good but you also need to be pretty good
with programming because I am assuming
that in BSC stats you may not have
encountered as much programming as as as
a typical BTech student would be and
typically in the industry if you are
coming from a BSC type of course right
you are typically expected to a master's
degree because a BTech is like a
four-year course while BSC in India is a
three-year course
so my recommendation of course you can
get jobs with BSC also I'm not saying
you can't but you will most likely get
data you most likely start your career
with a data analyst type of job unless
you are brilliant right again the
compensation itself will depend on both
your ability to solve real-world
problems your depth and
of knowledge and those are two things
that matter a lot but in general what we
recommend BSC students is to also pursue
masters like an MSC in statistics or MCA
in computer science etcetera so that
because recruiters typically ask for a
4-year degree or more a BSC is typically
a three year degree but again it is
possible for you to get a data analyst
type of roles but your compensation will
be slightly on the lower side as
compared to an MSC stats or MSE math or
MSE physics or MCA etc right so so I
would recommend you pursue a master's
program and that only learn machine
learning AI and also preferably become
good at programming because I've seen
lot of stats folks who are brilliant
with statistics mathematics etcetera who
lack programming ability but for a data
scientist you need to be good at both
right folks please don't please don't
spam by repeatedly posting the same
question it's very distracting both for
me and most importantly for the other
students please don't do that so
somebody says hobbies a Friday or
different from is it's a very different
league all together again we have many
students from Iasi who join the a a
course in a typical master's program at
IAC you learn lot of again at an
institute like IASE when you pursue a
master's degree the focus is lot on
Theory there is lot of focus on theory
to be honest with you at IAC one of the
most important lessons I learned was
advanced mathematics and how to read a
research paper the practical aspects of
machine learning itself I learnt in the
industry to be honest I mean I still
remember my early days in the industry
where I didn't know how to solve real
world problems even though I knew all
the mathematics behind many techniques
right so what is C teaches you is gives
it gives you very strong foundational
mathematical and theoretical knowledge
and of course you also learn not just a
subject you learned it subjects like
data structures algorithms operating
systems you know and maybe a distributed
system
scores you learn a wide spectrum of
courses because in two years you have so
much bandwidth to do and most masters
programs in India are very focused on
theory not as much as practical aspects
that's why we have lot of students from
ISC other major IITs both students
pursuing BTech and M Tech and especially
M Tech in in areas like AAA etc because
the university the professors at
University are phenomenal with Theory
right so they learn theory from the
University they learn some of the theory
and most importantly the applied aspects
the real-world problem-solving skills
from the AAA course so I would look at
both of these as complementary and not
in conflict with each other so okay so
what are the next questions here okay
so I I didn't understand this question
how to learn NLP from beginning to
advanced again NLP is just again there
is there is a classical NLP right which
which typically is covered in university
courses where you start with stemming
stopping all of that stuff but today in
industry a lot of NLP is done using both
classical techniques and very
importantly state-of-the-art deep
learning techniques right so the best
way to learn NLP is to start with
learning machine learning and deep
learning because that is almost the
foundational stuff on which most NLP
techniques can be easily built on top of
for example I have never taken an NLP
course myself even in the university but
I've learned most of it on the job
because I had a very strong foundational
machine learning and deep learning
knowledge right and again the cutting
edge of NLP is all deep learning it's
all techniques like attention models
transport modes bird etc again many of
them recover as part of our course
itself as a non computer science student
how to improve programming skill it's
it's fairly simple programming is just
like let's say going to a gym ok or
reading how do you become good at
reading you become good by doing it over
and over and over and over and over
again even when I remember learning
programming in my eleventh class if I'm
not wrong because I was in a CBSA
curriculum where we had computer science
or programming as one of the subjects so
the the only way I became good at
programming even I really enjoyed
programming even in my eleventh and
twelfth even my BTech days or even after
that the only way people become good at
programming is by solving lots and lots
of problems by writing code so first
step is always writing lots of programs
again we have as part of either a a
course itself in a Python module that we
have we have lot of optional assignments
especially targeted towards non CSC
students who are not comfortable with
programming right I strongly recommend
if you are coming from a non programming
background please solve all of them so
that you become comfortable with
you have to become comfortable with
programming because it is like it is
like reading alright see you in your
career you have to be good at being able
to read anything that is given to you
I think programming is such a
foundational skill for the for your
career now whichever career you're
whichever career path we are taking then
it is almost like a core skill that's
why even schools are encouraging I see a
lot of schools who are starting basics
of Python programming from sixth grade
onwards right so I strongly it's only
through practice number one but after
having done lots of practice the second
step is to read others code that's
another strategy that works phenomenally
well and I have learned how to write
beautiful code how to write code
elegantly by reading other solutions
these are the two steps that you have to
do day in and day out you only become
unless you're super smart which most of
us have not let's be realistic there you
become good at programming through
practice
there's nothing beats that okay so okay
I think this thread has gone too far
away I cannot keep track of everything
again whatever questions I could not
answer here please feel free to shoot an
email to team and apply day occurs we
will try to answer as many questions as
possible because there is a specific
theme behind this live session itself
right so I would like to focus on that
specific theme itself again we'll start
in a minute or so and it's impossible
for me to answer this huge thread of
questions but anything that I could not
answer but you want an answer please
shoot an email to premultiplied any
course and we'll try to answer as soon
as possible I will take one more
question then we'll start the session
yeah so somebody says what about pi
torch especially people who are in deep
learning pi torch is certainly a very
popular and fairly widely used deep
learning library itself as part of the
course we focused more on tensor flow
and caris primarily because we wanted to
pick one okay of course we will probably
do a live session on introduction to PI
torch also so that people who want to
used by torch also can get started with
it but we had to pick one to write all
of her codon and both both these both
tensorflow again Karras is now deeply
integrated into tensorflow
so let's call everything tensorflow plus
Kara's as one bucket and PI torches are
the bucket again
patrasche is used for production in
companies like Tesla Facebook etc
tensorflow Kerris is used in production
like companies like Google so both of
them are very very production ready
there are thousands of researchers
working and using these toolboxes every
now in their just that one is built at
Google the other is built or maintained
and contributed by folks at Tesla and
Facebook so you can pick and choose
again I have not used PI touch I've used
by touch and it's early days I haven't
used it much more recently but I have
used tensorflow Kara's again you can
pick any one of them better still if you
know the basics of both of them you
should be able to read code of either
tensorflow Kara's school or the or the
Python school right
it's good to know both I know the basics
of both but I'm not used by touch myself
in in practice a lot as much have used
Kara's intensive flow so just my bias
but you can pick any one of them both of
them are being used by thousands of
researchers and on like crazy production
systems okay guys so since we have just
over shorter we just passed them let's
get started with the live session itself
I have some notes that I've prepared
i'll also focus I'll just go through the
notes quickly but I'll focus more on the
code itself
let's do line by line code walkthrough
today okay so let me share the screen I
hope everybody can see the screen let me
just refresh it to make sure that
everybody can see the screen okay so
okay so this is what I had in mind I've
just written some notes but before that
let me just see if everybody can see if
you can you guys can you guys just come
from can you just can you guys just come
from if you're seeing the live session
or not okay you're seeing the screen
right so
that's good I just wanted to make sure
so I let's try to spend as much time
I'll just go through this note and once
I go through this notes I'll also go
through line by line of code right I
wanted to do a code walkthrough but
before we go through a Code walkthrough
let me just give you a couple of
interesting and important pointers so
the the the topic today is using web APs
in Python for machine learning and we'll
do it for two primary tasks right so the
first primary task is using pre-existing
models using models built at companies
like Google right so this is the first
task that we will solve okay how can
they use the speech-to-text again I'll
take the specific example of
speech-to-text model that Google
provides as part of Google Cloud API
right and how do we use it that's the
first thing the second thing that we'll
see is how to obtain data again data is
is the new oil right without data you
don't have machine learning and deep
learning models so we will use Bing
through is your API again Bing is the
second most popular search engine
through a your API right Azure which is
also owned by Microsoft so is Bing so we
use the is your API to get search
results for a given keyword so again we
will do both image search and text
search so these are the two things again
here you'll know how to use Google Cloud
or especially the the API part of Google
cloud and you'll also learn how to use
the API part of a jar that's that's the
whole agenda there also some assumptions
that I am making so again my biggest
assumption here is you know how to write
code in Python you know how to write
code in Python you know what is an
ipython notebook right again I will be
using Google colab extensively today
because it's easy for you to copy it and
run it in your own Google account
right instead of you having to install
there are no installation headaches that
way right of course you get you can run
this notebooks download them run it on
your own desktop or laptop that's fully
possible but giving you a Google collab
type of an
helps you run it out of your Google
Drive without any installation headaches
right so this is these are the
fundamental assumptions that I am making
that you know Python you know what is an
ipython notebook and you know a little
bit about color even if you don't know
too much about collab I will give you
some quick intro to collab itself collab
is again a tool by Google very very
powerful very popular being used
extensively by many students enough
okay now the agenda is threefold right
first is what is a Web API again many of
you know about Python functions I'm
assuming that you know Python right so
I'll try to compare and give you a very
high-level overview of what a Web API is
there are a lot of internals of how Web
API is who are using using rest using
using XML right you're using
service-oriented architecture all of
these things I'm not going to go into
all of the more technical or software
engineering aspects of it I'm going to
give you an intuitive idea of what a web
api is and that intuitive idea is
sufficient for the code walkthroughs
okay I'm not going to go into the
software architecture stuff because this
is not a software architecture or a
software design course okay as long as
you know how to use web APs you're cool
right so the so I will give you a brief
introduction to what Web API sir then
I'll go through a code walkthrough where
we will take speech and will convert
speech to text using google chrome API
okay this will be a code walkthrough
then there is another code walkthrough
which is how do you collect data using
Bing the Search API which is available
on Asia these are the three things that
I wanted to do first let's understand
what is the Web API so that we can take
the learnings from this and learn and
actually go through the code right so
let's go let's go step by step quickly
so we all know what function calls in
Python right how does a function call
work imagine this is my Python code some
lines of code here I'm calling a
function f with a parameter which is or
arguments or parameter called Sreekanth
which is a string here so as soon as I
call this function what happens see this
line is executed this
is executed this line is executed this
line is executed as long as a call this
function what happens it goes to
wherever the function definition is
right it goes to this this recount is
now copied into this variable name
called name into this variable name
called name and whatever is there in
this function is executed at the end of
it my control comes back to this line
itself this is a function calls work
again when you're running function calls
what's happening this code is in your
computer this this this calling function
this whole calling code is in your
computer this called function is also in
your computer very often okay so all of
them are in the same computer right of
course this function could be in a
different folder or in a different
library that's all okay but both this
and this are on the same computer okay
that's the important part typical
function calls in Python okay you can
think of API as also a fancier version
of a function call that's it what is a
Web API so again there are many types of
ApS web a pairs are the most popular and
most widely used so how does a Web API
work let's understand that step by step
let me change the colors a little okay
let me use this color okay suppose
imagine if this is a code that I have
okay so this line is executed executed
executed executes I'm calling this
function f now when I call this function
f what happens the control goes here
this Shrikant is copied to the name
variable and then again there is some
body of the function right where I
execute this I execute this I execute
this so in a Web API what happens is
this this is very interesting in a web a
period you want to run again to send to
complete this so there is a chunk of
code here there is a chunk of code here
okay through which you want to call
again remember that this function this
code snippet and this are on the same
box so let me draw a bounding box here
okay so these two are on the these two
are on the same computer this is your
local computer let's say okay this whole
thing is on your local local computer
now this function will make a request
okay it will make a request
to a web server okay this web server
could be located anywhere on the
internet remember this is your desktop
this is any web server it could be
Google surfer it could be Amazon server
it could be insured server doesn't
matter okay the way it works is this
function let's call this function as f
APM okay this is a web AP this our Web
API works so this function f now makes a
request so this works using a request
response type of system and this request
is sent using HTTP protocol typically
what is HTTP HTTP is a protocol that is
used to access web pages okay if you go
to any web page you see HTTP colon slash
slash facebook.com so hedge TTP is the
web based protocol for looking up at web
pages now the same HTTP protocol is used
to call a function on a web server this
function is sitting on a web server so I
request when I make a request I can also
send some parameters I can also send
some some parameters to this function
these parameters will go into this
function this whole function will
execute whatever is the output of this
function comes back to the calling code
now remember this request is sent via
the internet using HTTP again HTTP is
the most popular you can do it with
other protocols also this these are
typically called as web a place because
you are using a web based protocol you
are requesting see you know the best
protocol what do you do
typically in HTTP you request for a page
and the server sends you a page here
what I doing Eirik you are sending a
request to execute this function with
some parameters of your choice or some
some arguments of your choice and this
sends back a response this response is
typically sent back using formats like
JSON XML etc again Jason being one of
the most popular ones okay there is also
XML again in our in our Python videos in
our in our course we have discussed
about JSON XML etcetera right so this is
how this is the basics of how web apis
themselves work again we have done an
earlier live session where we discussed
about how to build a web api your self
using flask using flask and
how to deploy it on a SS this is the
live session that we have done earlier
right so in this live session we are not
going to discuss how to build a behavior
we are going to learn how to use a web
api now in this whole system there is
also one more layer called security
now what is security security basically
when I'm making a request to the web
server
think about it when I go and request for
a web page I could send my username
password credentials to log into a web
page right similarly for for web api s'
okay there is something called as an api
key okay so there is something called as
api keys that you send along with your
request along with your request
you send api key to tell exactly who you
are because some of these API s-- will
charge you there's there is a chargeable
amount for every for every function call
that you make because this is being
again where is this function f api
running it's running on the web server
imagine if it's running on the Google
server Google is spending money to
execute that function for you right so
Google could charge a small amount just
to ensure that you're the person whom it
should be charged there are some API
keys so API keys are used mostly for
security and billing purposes right I
hope this this picture is clear again we
will see this example we will see this
actually working in practice okay so
let's go step by step this is a big are
big big idea behind web APs it
themselves now let's dive into Google
speech-to-text okay so the most
important thing that you have to
remember or learn is this whole system
in that ok so let me show you this the
most important thing here is this this
is your calling function this is the
this calling this function this function
will call a function sitting on a web
server again some of you who might have
studied Java etc might have learned
about remote procedure calls or pcs
right again this is something that I
remember learning in my BTech remote
procedure calls were a popular
technology especially in Java you can do
it even today but web a place you can
think of as the next generation of our
pcs or remote procedure calls because
you are calling a function that is there
remotely on a web server
using web-based protocols and request
responses using JSON XML and all these
are all these are data formats that are
very extensively used on the internet
right as so there are only three pieces
there is a request there is a response
and there are API keys these are the
three things that you should know right
it's as simple as that okay so let's
let's go down okay again I'll go step by
step and in between I'll go to the go to
the chat window and try to answer a few
questions if there are any but let me go
through each of these step by step first
okay so let's go Google speech-to-text
right so before we go in again you can
we can read a lot about Google
speech-to-text in this link and share
this share this document with you at the
end of the live session but just just
bear with me this is where again you can
read a lot about how Google
speech-to-text itself helps you this
this is a web api that is provided by
google cloud right now a big question
that many many of you might have is why
not build my own speech-to-text you're
using using advanced to speech-to-text
algorithms like transform or modules or
attention modules etc a very common
question that that we encounter why
don't we simply use our own
speech-to-text
alright so just let me go into the
comment section and see if everything is
all right okay sounds good yeah I think
everything is okay so let me let me go
into let me go back to the document
itself okay so the question here is why
not build our own speech-to-text using a
transformer module or attention model
one of the biggest problems in building
your own speech-to-text
is data there are there are multiple
parts imagine a company like Google
which owns an Android okay which owns
Google now Google assistant they are
sitting on a literally a gold mine of
data okay they listen to people I mean
they they have data of audio from people
almost from everywhere in the world
different accents different speaking
rates right so they are sitting
literally on a goldmine of data and they
have the resources to so they have laid
they have raw data and they have high
quality labeled data imagine a company
like Google because speech-to-text is
such an important part of the technology
stack whether it's on Android whether
it's on Google assistant whatever it is
they can spend a few million dollars
going through thousands and thousands of
sentences that people have spoken and
get them labeled manually for
correctness so this sort of high quality
label data you and I
normal beings may not have access to
number two number three that they have
is compute resources Google can train
and experiment with fabulously complex
models ok so because they they have like
literally tens of thousands of computers
GPU computers at the disposal for their
research work even for their production
work right so what Google can give us in
terms of what Google has in terms of
compute is enormous fourth thing they
have is people Google has some of the
best concentration of deep learning
researchers in the world whether it's at
google deepmind or google brain or
google product beans etc right so google
has great data it has enormous amounts
of label data it has computer resources
and people that if we try to build our
own speech-to-text it will be very hard
to compete with what Google can build
because of these fundamental advantages
that a company like Google has again
just like Google there is also an is
your speech-to-text
there is also an IBM speech-to-text
there is also AWS enabling it again
owned by Amazon
it stands for Amazon Web Services each
of these services has a speech-to-text
api that you can call but amongst all of
them Google seems to be one of the best
especially when I try with my Indian
accent ok I'm sure others also work very
well for other accents but I've seen
Google to work the best for Indian
accent or even for accents across the
world right so the reason to use a
speech-to-text like Google is again the
forth again because they have this huge
advantages and most importantly if they
already have it and if they're making
available to an APN why not just reuse
it why not just reuse it for example
look at this in your Python right so
very common example that I give people
is in Python we have dictionaries right
which is nothing but a hash table which
is nothing but a hash table right a
dictionary is nothing but a hash table
hash table is a very very popular data
structure in computer science
how many of us implement hash tables
whenever we need to we don't we use a
dictionary in Python because it it
implements the hash table I under I know
again remember that as a good software
engineer I should know how a hash table
works I should know how the internals of
a hash table but I don't have to
implement hash table every time because
the designers of Python have done it
using a data structure called dick which
is nothing but a hash table right but as
a good software in ER I should know the
internal similarly when I'm using a
speech-to-text system I should know how
well it works and I should it's always a
good practice if you want to do it
quickly it's always good to use Google
speech-to-text as your first correct
solution right of course you can build
your own system using transformers but
very likely unless you are working in a
very specific domain and unless you have
a lot large training data you may not be
your results may not be as comparable to
Google speech-to-text
right it's fairly hard to beat that I
mean it's not impossible I've seen in
specific applications for example if you
want medical I've seen a few medical
companies what they do is this medical
terminology is very different from the
terminology that Google sees as part of
the data set so there are companies that
collect a lot of medical data what the
doctor says the medicines that the
doctor is prescribing and they just
listen to it they get lot of high
quality label data and they train their
model only on medical data which means
their models their transformers or
retention models are going to perform
phenomenally well on medical data while
Google may not be able to so unless you
have very specific applications where
Google is not performing well it makes
complete sense to use Google
speech-to-text of course there's a small
cost associated with it but let's let's
go through Google's cloud speech-to-text
right so let's just go there
I'll show you sorry I'll just show you
how it looks okay so I just Google just
go to that link what you see is this you
see a speech-to-text here it says speaks
to text conversion powered by machine
learning there is a ton of doctor I'm
sorry there is a ton of documentation
that you can read the best part is this
you can upload a small audio file and it
will give you again you can try how well
this works actually you can just choose
a file upload this file and it will give
you the output of whatever audio is
there in the it will give you speech to
text output right very very interesting
right so again Google can recognize 120
languages very and all of that stuff
right I mean phenomenally I mean they've
designed it phenomenally well and keep
Google can we can can detect if you're
giving a command for example a command
like set an alarm I give this command to
my Google assistant every now and then
or if you have phone calls right Google
is trained a special model for phone
calls even if you give it a video it can
transcribe or convert the speech to text
of the audio in the video then there is
a default system which works for
long-form audio if you have let's say
five minutes of audio and you want to
convert that to text this is very cool
right again there are multiple there are
multiple features advantages all of that
stuff there are things like speaker Dyer
ization which basically says which
detects the speaker who is speaking a
specific sentence imagine if there is an
audio snippet with multiple speakers it
can recognize which speakers said the
what of course there is a price
associated with it again because Google
is spending I mean tons of resources on
it for some like up to 60 minutes of
audio this service is free beyond that
they charge a small amount okay
so again this is important to note ok
there is a bunch of documentation but
instead of going to the documentation
let me show you first and foremost you
should go to Google Cloud okay let me
just go there just go to
cloud.google.com sign up again we have
an account because we use Google
services for some of our work
just sign up okay this is this again our
account right this is our account which
we use but please sign up on Google on
Google called cloud.google.com when you
are signing up it will mostly ask for
your credit card right so just say sign
up for a Google account
just like the way you sign up for a
gmail account or anything just sign up
for a cloud.google.com account but it
asks for a valid credit card to create
an account this is mandatory
without this it will not let you create
an account okay so please make sure that
you have a valid credit card
unfortunately they force you to do it
because in case you use the service a
lot they have to charge you to your
credit card number one then go to this
webpage ok console dot so once you've
created the account just go to console
dot cloud.google.com again it says go to
console right you can just go to console
then again just like Google
speech-to-text there are many other
services so Google has something called
as vision vision Google Cloud or
google.com fronts Leslie vision ok in
this Google can do or detect objects
automatically understand text in images
right all of this it can do just like
the way we are doing speech to text this
I am show you one API there are hundreds
of a pays on Google Klump right you can
also do it for images also just wanted
to tell you that I'll show you speaks to
text but similar things you can do it
for understanding text in an image
detecting objects all sorts of stuff the
concepts stay the same the concept of
calling the a pH stays the same it just
that you have to call a different API
that's it it's like calling a different
function altogether ok so then then just
go to console if you go to console this
is how it looks like this is our console
page ok
so once you go to console page I have
created screenshots so that you can use
this first and foremost create an
account and go to console dot
cloud.google.com I'm trying to take you
step by step next go to first we have to
creating API key because API key tells
without an API key you can't call Google
Web API so what you have to do you got
to go to this webpage go to this again
I've
I can screenshot so that you can reuse
this you can take this slides and follow
the same steps okay consult or
cloud.google.com just go here to get the
API key on the left side you have a PSN
services let me also show you this API
send services in APs and services go to
credentials
that's what again I have highlighted
that here clearly go to APIs and
services click on credentials right
again what am I doing here we are trying
to get an API key for ourselves to call
the function we need the API key without
this we can't get it to work
okay so first create your google cloud
account then let's get the API key click
on credentials once you go to
credentials it create conditions click
click on create credentials it will show
you service account click on this I'm
giving you step-by-step instructions
here once you go to service account ok
you can fill this form ok you can just
call whatever name you want we are
calling it a AC life because we are
using these keys for life session only
ok it will give you some account name
all of that stuff and I can describe
what I want to do to explain the concept
of API speech-to-text
just fill this form and click create ok
now once you click create it also says
do you want some account permissions
owner permissions etc just if you don't
need this don't worry about it this is
optional just click on continue ok when
you click on continue it will give you
this page and just click on create key
again I am giving you step by step here
ok click on create key here once you
click on that it says how do you want to
create your key we want in JSON format
or p12 format JSON is the recommended
one so just click on jason choose this
option jason and click on create ok so
the moment you do this this is what you
get it says I have created this JSON
file
it's called nifty buffer blah blah blah
blah dot JSON and it is downloaded to my
computer ok so now what do you have you
have the Jason key oh yeah or you have
the API key to call the remote function
or the web APN ok so just download this
now what I do now is I rename this ok
because this name is so cumbersome
I just rename this JSON file ok you know
how to rename it right downloaded it to
your
on your computer just rename this to a
play - key door Jason and if you go into
that this is how it looks again I have
I've cleared out all the all my URLs
because this is specific to our company
right but if you see if you just open
the JSON file this is how it looks
so whatever JSON file I downloaded from
for my API keys which is me free buffer
blah blah blah I changed it to API key
to Jason and when you open it it looks
like this cool ok now let's go to Google
collab and run the whole thing not cool
this is simple right so what have we
done enough we have done two things we
first created an account on Google Cloud
and we have gotten a we have downloaded
the API key as JSON file and we call
that API key Jason finest API - key dot
JSON now let's go to Google : file ok so
let me walk you through Google collab
now okay so this is my Google collab
file let me just zoom this in a little
so that you can see what's happening ok
I am zooming it in so that you can see
the code now what is Google collab again
those of you who already know ipython
notebooks Google collab is like running
an ipython notebook on the Google cloud
from your Google Drive itself right very
simple again this is one of the simplest
ways if you don't want to go through the
headaches of installing Python ipython
notebook Jupiter notebooks all of that
headache this is one of the easiest ways
to do it
first and foremost so let me go code
line by line so first what I do from
Google Kolob imported rifle ok so what
why is this needed because this is again
how does it work on your typical
computer ok you have your ipython
notebook here and you have your whole
disk here you have you have your whole
hard disk here right this is your
ipython notebook on your ipython
notebook you can access all the folders
on your disk this is how it typically
works right and all of this is on your
same computer right now what happens is
this ipython notebook wants to access
your Google Drive
so when you say import to drive what do
you want to do you want
mount this drive or access this driver
right so the first step this light
basically says from Google collab
imported right why do we need this
because we want to use Google Drive as a
disk as a hard disk now first step
second step is you mount your Google
Drive mounting basically means again
mounting is a term that comes from UNIX
and Linux terminology it basically means
make your Google Drive accessible from
this from this ipython notebook out from
this colab notebook right very simple
command dr dot mount just say content g
drag this is fixed so what this does is
it makes your whole Google Drive
accessible to this ipython notebook
right so just like your disk is
accessible by default or ipython
notebook now if your colab notebook can
access your whole Google Drive it can
access your whole Google Drive so that
I'll use Google Drive as my hard disk
lock right that's very very important
right so I have this so when you mount
it it says it requires authorization
code because it wants to ensure that you
are using your Google Drive itself so
the moment you execute this it says
click on this link when you click on
this link it will give you a code it
will give you a big hex a listen it will
give you a big alphanumeric code just
press it here and press ENTER it will
say mounted Google Drive right so now
what have you done in these two steps in
these two steps we have made sure that
we have we are you going to use Google
Drive as the disk in which we will store
and retrieve stuff first and for so what
I have done here for this session for
this session what I have done is this
I've created in my Google Drive look at
this so content G Drive my Drive this is
my whole Google Drive within my Google
Drive let me show you this so that you
are ok so let me show you this so in my
drive this is this is my company's
Google Drive right in Google Drive I
have a folder called live sessions this
is the date on which we created some of
this data 24th Feb and we call it
speech-to-text ok in this I have in this
speech to text folder I have all the
files that I need for the next steps so
what am I doing here
look at this when you run a line like
this look at this in hi Python notebooks
or even in collab you can run Linux
commands like this percentage CD CD
basically means change directory in UNIX
what am I saying I'm saying change to
this directory right now what
Directorate isn't it is in content eg
Drive it is in this directory enough so
what am I saying please change it to
content G Drive my Drive so first of all
what you should do is you should create
a folder called speech-to-text on your
own Drive whichever folder you want you
can create it within your whole Drive
itself
mount that ok so you change your that
see you already mounted your whole Drive
you change the directory then this
exclamation LS basically means list all
the contents of this folder again these
are commands that you encounter on Linux
or UNIX or Mac right because at the end
of the day Google runs all of this on
Linux clusters right so when you say LS
what happens it will print all the
contents of this folder in my speech to
text folder I have some PNG s just
ignore these PNG these pages are nothing
but the screenshots that I have shown
you earlier the most important ones are
these API key dot Jason remember the API
key that are downloaded from Google I
upload it to my Google Drive in this
folder so whatever is your JSON key
remember just just a while ago I showed
you that I downloaded API key door JSON
from my Google account I uploaded to
speech-to-text in my Google Drive okay I
also could I also uploaded another audio
file this audio file is gene VV dot
laughs okay this is an audio file that I
want to convert to text I also created a
folder called parts I can tell you why
we created the parts then again you
don't have to worry about ipython
checkpoints because it's automatically
created for you then there is a
requirements dot txt these are the four
important files that you need again you
will have your own API key dot JSON will
share you share the gene view dot the
have file will also share the
requirements 5
each of these are required in a little
wine so whatever done now I have gone to
I've changed my directory to this
directory enough in this directory these
are the for files and folders that I
will use okay
first and foremost before I go ahead I
want to tell you I first have to set up
the environment right although all the
other libraries that we need we need to
first install them right because this
Google collab may not have all the
libraries that we need so the
requirements dot txt file if you just
cat exclamation cat
what does cat to do in Linux that
basically prints the contents of a file
so the requirements dot txt file has all
the libraries that we need to install to
make this whole code work very simple
okay so this is the list of all the
files or sort of all the packages that
you need or like beauties that you need
to execute this okay so that's what is
there your requirements dot txt next
look at this line next line is very
important it says exclamation tip
what is people to be pissed Python
Installer right basically you can
install Python packages using pip pip
install - our requirements dot txt now
what does this do whatever is there
whatever libraries are there in
requirements into txt it will try to
install all of them right pip install
basically installs all these libraries
that we need for the rest of the whole
system the most interesting library here
is speech recognition and can you mind
again this is the name of the library or
the package and this is the version I am
also giving the version if this version
number does not exist it will it will
simply force it and install this so see
look at this it's downloading all of
them installing it to your column now
very good so what have we done enough we
have moved our again this is very
important you need to create a folder in
your in your Google Drive copy the API
key that you got whatever is the audio
file that you want to transcribe or
convert to text the requirements file
and the parts folder okay what have we
done till now they've installed all the
requirements that we need to execute
rest of the code
libraries than we need okay next let's
look at the audio file itself this audio
file is called gene look at this this
audio file this is the name of the audio
file if you look at the audio file I can
we can we can listen to the audio file
also what I'm trying to do with this
ffmpeg line okay this this ffmpeg line
basically says again ffmpeg is a very
very popular Linux tool to cut audio and
video the way we want to process audio
and video so explanation ffmpeg - I
which means this is my input remember
this is my input file now what I want to
do here is I want to segment this input
file into thirty-second chunks see this
is my whole file okay this is my whole
audio file I think this is not this is
close to 90 seconds if I'm not wrong
okay this is a 90 second audio file I'm
breaking it into 30 second files I'll
tell you why I am doing it little later
just bear with me okay so this command
basically again you can just Google
search for this command and you'll get I
don't remember it by heart to be honest
with you
i google-searched again I think my
teammates actually Google search to
create this document right so ffmpeg - I
this is my input file I'm going to break
it into thirty-second chunks and I'm
going to copy all of those 30-second
chunks into this folder so now my parts
file
my parts folder has out dot valve now
look at this what am I doing with this I
am taking this bigger or your file this
is my input
I am chunking it or I am segmenting it
into 30-second audio snippets and this
30-second audio snippets I am storing it
into or I am copying them into the parts
folder without some numbering now if I
if I now let's go to this parts folder
and list what our files are there look
at this okay so I'll come there in a
while okay so that's what I have done
actually there is a line here let me
show you we have it here yeah so okay so
it created three files actually parts
out all zeros out one two so this
percentage zero some of you may be
concerned about this syntax here this
percentage zero nine out percentage zero
nine D back what this means is the first
file make it as out followed by nine
zeros four five six four four dot laugh
this will be my first fight my second
file will be out the nine basically
means nine zeros okay the second one
will be 0 0 0 0 1.5 the third one will
be out zero zero zero zero two dot 5 etc
you can use any number here that's okay
so what have we done here we have taken
the big 92nd roughly about ninety second
audio file and we have broken the broken
it up into thirty second audio chunks
now why we are doing it I'll come to it
a little bit you don't have to do it all
this okay but there is a reason why I
have done it I will show you in a little
while just bear with me okay now let's
go to the core effect now we have our
input data we have our keys we have
installed all the requirements so let's
go down and actually run the code so
there is this package called a speech
recognition like a very interesting
package so if this is this is a
reference link we can just go here the
speech the National Library again again
here we are using an another library
called speech recognition very popular
library through which you can call
Google's cloud Google Cloud speech API
you can call as your speech API you can
call bingo voice recognition right you
can also call IBM speech to text so this
is one library again this is one library
or package that you have speech
recognition package with which you can
call most of the major most of the major
speech to text recognizer systems again
CMU sphinx is an old slightly old model
which you can run on your own computer
this is not a Web API based system ok
this was built at Carnegie Mellon
University it's it's a very popular
technology before before cutting-edge
stuff that Google and is your nawa
building enough but this this has
existed for a very long time so the
speech recognition
a package here that our library that we
have here can help us call Google Cloud
speech APA is your speech API or Bing
recognition whatever we want that's the
best part about this now of course there
is a lot of documentation about this but
let's dive into the code itself so what
am I doing here
I'm just importing speech recognition as
si very simple and if I just see SR SR
is a module blah blah blah all that
stuff is there cool no problem
all right now now look at this okay so I
am writing some code here for something
called as multi processing so input OS
we all know what oasis right then this
this these lines basically are for
something called as multi processing I
will explain you multi processing in a
little while okay suppose in
multi-processing what happens is this
typically what do we do I think some of
you may know about multi-threading and
things like that so what it does here is
imagine if I have a lot of audio files
right I have audio out 0 0 0 0.5 file I
have out 0 0 0 0 1.5 file right I have
out 0 0 2 dots I have final imagine if I
have lots of bad files like this if I
want to call the Google such a sorry
Google speech-to-text API parallel leave
with this audio with this audio with
this audio see one thing that I can do
is I can first get the speech-to-text
for this then speaks to text for this
then speech to text for this then speech
to text so on so forth but that could be
time taking right so what is an
alternative an alternative is can I call
all of them terribly using different
threads
that's what multi processing is all
about I want to show you that also ok
remember the reason we created from a
big file from a 90-second audio file we
created three 30-second audio files
because I wanted to show you how to call
all these three how to transfer how to
get transcription for speech to text for
the all three parallel also for that we
will use this we'll use this whole
concept called as pooling ok so this is
again those of you who have studied
Python in more depth you would know
about the multi-threading and
multi-processing etcetera it's a fairly
simple concept basically multiple
because most likely you have multi-core
computer with multiple threads all of
them can run directly okay so let's keep
this here this is primarily to me to be
able to do multi threading or multi
processing okay so let's go back again
now now look at this okay so first and
foremost first I want to read my API key
I want to read my API key so what does
this this line say this line says okay
with open I want to open this file as f
and I want to read this file whatever
are the contents of this file I want to
store it in a variable called Google
Cloud speech credentials all in caps
okay so this is my hole so this so this
variable now contains all the contents
of my API key right so what I've done
here again I can't show you all of my I
can't show you my API key because if
everybody uses it I'm going to get
charged like crazy so I'm just showing
you a part of it okay I mean I'm just
showing you a small part of my API key
but you'll get this you'll get something
like this basically what you are doing
here is you are loading your API key
JSON contents into this variable called
Google Cloud speech credentials and I'm
just printing that to see everything is
alright now
now comes the core part of it now what
am i doing I have my speech see look at
this my whole library where is this okay
my whole speech resolution library I
have loaded less si now I want to create
a speech recognizer right so I create a
variable called R or an object called
are s are not recognizer so this is my
speech recognizer object okay cool very
simple now look at this I want to see
what all files are there in the parts
folder okay this is very simple I'm
using OS dot lists directory function
and I'm saying
within the parts what all file isn't
there what are.what or whatever files
are there list them and I'm using OS do
not list directory and sort them so
these are the three files that I have in
my parts folder right now now let's look
at this now what do I want to do I want
to convert let's take this one let's
take this I want to take this 30-second
audio and I want
converted into text that's what I want
to do right so before we go that let's
listen to it in ipython notebook you can
listen to audio also okay so all you
have to do here is again I'm creating a
file named parts +50 which basically
means parts front slash out 9 0 s dot
slash this is my file name ok so you can
actually listen to an audio file also
you can you just have to say ipython not
display input audio and you say audio
file name if you click on this this will
play actually this will actually play
let me see if I can I don't know if you
can hear this yeah you can actually play
this you can listen to this 30-second
audio again I want to again I'll share
this whole document with you so that you
can try it on your own on your own
Google Drive account ok now this is cool
so I have my audio file I have my audio
file name now I have my recognizer
object I just have to call the remote
function of ok so let's go into this so
first and foremost I have the file name
this name corresponds to my file name my
odd out 0 0 0.5 first I want to load the
audio which is there so what do I do
I just say with sr dot audio file name
as source just a recorder so this audio
object now look at this this audio this
audio variable now contains the actual
audio that is there in this file name
right first and foremost right so from a
file name I've loaded the audio into
this variable called audio right by by
just using this function or this snippet
of code now we want to transcribe it
which basically means I want to get a
text for it getting the text is
literally this line of code so text
equals to R again this is my recognizer
object r dot recognize using google
cloud because what what does this
function do now this function says ok
where do I have to go to I have to go to
Google Cloud what is the audio that I
want this is the audio that I want to
transcribe or to get get the text for it
what are my credentials all my
credentials are there in the Google
Cloud speech credentials variable that's
it
this thing
function what this function does love it
goes to Google's cloud it goes to
Google's cloud when it goes to Google's
cloud it sends the audio in in the
request remember in the request it sends
the audio it also sends my API key
credentials it also sends my API and
audio in the request it sends my API and
audio to the Google Cloud Servers Google
Cloud server sends back what does it
send back it sends back this text to me
and if I just print the text the text is
actually like this
this dynamic workshop aims to provide
up-to-date information again I'll share
this so it is giving you the text output
for it for the audio it is giving you
the text output or you let me do one
thing let me let me just help you here
this just give me a second let me let me
help you here this I'm increasing the
volume on my computer coming close this
dynamic workshop aims to provide
up-to-date information on pharmacal okay
I hope you could hear the audio slightly
again I shared these documents with you
you can try this it clearly says this
dynamic workshop aims to provide
up-to-date information of formal logic
pharmacological approaches bla bla bla
bla so this single line here if you
notice sorry so this single line was
where all the magic was happening what
we have done till now is the
miscellaneous stuff around it right very
simple now I can put all of this into
one single function look at what I am
writing here this function is called
transcribe look at what I am doing here
this function is called transcribe even
the data part again I am trying to put
everything that we have discussed now
into one function I will call this
function as transcribe this data is
nothing but the file name this data here
is nothing but the file name so using
this file name that I have I am
constructing the actual file name by
concatenating with the parts folder as
we have just seen okay next what are we
doing here next look at this loading the
audio file this we've seen this line set
whatever lines we have seen I'm just
trying to put them into one function now
then I can call the function
I can print the whole thing look at this
this is loading the audio whatever
whatever data was there in this file
name in the parts folder I'm loading it
into an audio object right or audio
variable and I'm just calling the
recognized Google Cloud with this audio
as input with my credentials which are
stored here that's it and the whole
output from Google Cloud I'm going to
store it in text and I'm going to print
it so as a programmer you don't see much
of a difference between calling a
function calling a web api function and
calling a local function only that you
need to be connected to the Internet if
you are not connected to the Internet
this whole thing will not work that
that's the key because this function you
have to go why are the internet using
Internet protocols send both the audio
and the credentials and get the data
back except that from a code perspective
this all feels like just calling a
function it's that simple
now given that I have transcribed
function let me show you how we can
actually do multi processing or tunnel
processing if you want to think about it
imagine if I have multiple files that I
have imagine if I have out 0 0 0 0.5 1.5
suppose if I have 100 files like this I
want to show you this because in the
real world you may have many files like
this and you want to do this fast so you
want to call this function look at this
you want to call this function
transcribe right with this file name as
an input and while that is while that is
still getting the text you want to call
this Baddeley you want to call this
farily you want to call this parallely
you want to do all of that all of that
can be done using pool again
I told about multi-threading right so
pull dot map so this function does that
pull dot map you are saying which
function to call and what are the inputs
to each of these function calls right
that's it it's a very simple thing
you're saying pool dot map right you're
saying call the transcribe function
right using whatever you have in the
files variable again files contains a
bunch of file names ok just give that as
input to each of the transcribed
function calls
and then close your pool and then join
it is basically what it basically does
internally is very simple
what it basically does is it calls all
these functions and all the output goes
into this variable called alt text now
if you just print alt text what do you
get you get okay because how did we
write the return here we get the ID and
the text right so you get ID as 0 X this
is the whole text of the first file ID 1
text
I read two text so this way by using the
pool and the map by using this
multi-threading or a multi processing
concept called pool that I just showed
you a while ago that is this where was
that I showed you a while ago right let
me go up yeah so using using this sort
of construct called pool and using this
line you can call and using these three
lines you can call the transcribe
function with multiple inputs parallely
right so this is how you call the Google
API with one audio file at a time and
using multiple audio files parallely
both right so this is this is one part I
hope this is clear again you will have
to play with this try it and my
recommendation again right after this
live session I will edit this and I will
upload all of these documents all of
this google google google collab files
etc give me a couple of hours after the
live session because I'll have to remove
some of our or API keys etc and share it
with you right simple okay so this is
one let me go to the chat window and see
where we are okay yeah somebody's asking
you about ffmpeg yeah ffmpeg is F MPEG
has lots of documentation I've been
using it for the last like four fifteen
years enough and I don't remember it by
heart every time I need I just go Google
search ffmpeg how to cut EV audio file I
don't remember the documentation by
heart but there are tons of resources
online to be honest with you I don't
remember the document again I don't
remember documentation of
most languages whenever I need it I go
read the documentation and use it
because it's almost impossible for
anyone to remember like hundreds of
major libraries even matplotlib type
stuff we can't do it so where will you
share files okay so what I'll do here is
in the comment section the first comment
I'll pin it I'll provide you the links
to the audio file the requirements file
and the collab notebooks just give me a
couple of hours after this life because
I need to sanitize it with more API keys
etc and share it with you I will put it
just right under this live session
itself okay
just under the live session itself is
the first comment I'll post all the
links okay
oh yes somebody says can we do it for
other languages apart from English I
have tried it for other languages like
Telugu which is my mother tongue which I
can speak fairly fluently but it works
okay google claims that they can do it
in 120 languages I'm sure they can do it
for some of the European languages very
well because they're so extensively used
in countries like India where English is
still very popular when you communicate
with Google I think some of the Indian
languages are not very good I heard
Hindi is pretty decent I haven't tried
it myself while you're chunking it could
corrupt some words that's okay there
might be some error at the very end or
at the very beginning some small
chunking might happen at the very end
but that's okay I mean again the only
reason I chunk this I trunk this bigger
90-second file into smaller files is to
show you how multi processing or
multi-threading happens okay because in
your real world you might have like some
30 files that you want to call this
functions on and instead of calling one
after the other you could just pull
everything together and send it so that
you get results faster right sounds good
so let's take a couple of minutes break
I just need to sip some water and then
we'll go to the bingo one okay that's
easier being makes it so again somebody
says does it work good for Hindi I have
heard it works good for at least the
proper Hindi accent the typical again
there's so many accents of him
so there is a South Indian in the accent
there is a Hyderabadi Hindi accent right
there is a lot Navi accent which is
slightly different but I think if you
speak regular TV news type in Li I think
it will work fairly well alright I'm a
TV news type in E is the most generic
one
so sounds good let's jump into okay so
in the interest of time because we have
only one more R so this is how Google
works again let's go to I have another
one okay so let me go to my notes okay
so this is done okay
let's go to Bing Search API now this has
been one of my favorite aps I've used
this extensively at multiple times again
you might ask me why are you using Bing
Search API why not Google Search API two
reasons because Google does not give you
such a pain Google doesn't want to give
anything related to their such right so
but being an AW of being and a juror or
Microsoft in general gives you a search
api that's why I'm using it number one
number two is of all the machine
learning tools or machine learning aps
that you have some of the best ones I
found on Google to be honest again I
tried to be as unbiased as possible so
Google is one of the best web ApS for
machine learning that I've seen second
is Asia
third is AWS IBM I think comes last
again from my own experience and I have
used this API is to especially for
speech-to-text for national language
understanding I've tried I've tried all
of them
Google typically tends to outperform
most of them and Google and as you're
almost perform very close like for
example AWS speech-to-text is not as
good again I think what the reason
Google and I should perform very well is
because both of them have search engines
right so both of them have search
engines which makes their life they're
literally sitting on a goldmine of data
right AWS with its Alexa has done some
good work but again I've come across so
many instances where an Alexa cannot
recognize my Indian accent but Google
can recognize with the Google assistant
right I've seen this in practice I've
seen this extensively IBM I think IBM
does lot of marketing and stuff but in
terms of pure quality of outputs I
pick Google or is your any day over an
IBM I mean I guess I could be biased
there might be few things in which IBM
might be doing better but in my own
experience that I've used Google and
they sure are almost the best they're
very close to each other Google has a
small little edge primarily probably
because of Android Android data and
because of chrome data right so first
and foremost so Google are so big calls
or Azure calls their whole thing called
as cognitive services right I've seen
lot of startups use this and I mean Asia
is also very very fast-growing cloud
provider doing a very good job here
right again just to be fair here
I prefer AWS over Asia and other things
when it comes to distributed system
platforms the whole cloud computing
itself I prefer a Tablas over Asia but
when it comes to Asia or Google Google
compute platform but then when it comes
to machine learning itself
I prefer Asia and Google compute
platform already a place and I think
these things are constantly changing
today whatever I am picking up whichever
sides and making tomorrow things might
change if AWS invests more money there
and more resources anyway back to our
topic
so a de bellas calls this as cognitive
services if you just go to this link
again the signup process is very simple
the good thing with with Asia is they'll
give you a couple of keys there is no
JSON file they'll give you a simple keys
that are valid for seven days you don't
require a credit card to use it for
seven days you don't require a credit
card to use it after seven days you have
to get your to be enter your credit card
credentials right so for seven days
they'll give you a couple of keys you
can use them to access their API is free
of cost of course there are some limits
and constraints but you don't require
credit card so those of you who may not
have a credit card like students and who
could not get it for whatever reason
feel free to use is your is your API so
because google forces you to give a
credit card again their signup process
is very very simple let me show you this
is Google cognitive or oh sorry is your
cognitive services again if you just go
through this link that I've shown you if
you just click on this link it will take
you to this page here you have Binx
API version 7 again look at what all
searches you can know you can do web
search you can do image search you can
do video search you can do new search
you can do visual search similarly being
spell check look at how well the search
engines do spell check you can do a
spell check right you can do Bing
autosuggest right or you can you you can
you can even do entities such as
Google's knowledge graph so whatever you
want so in our case we're going to use
Google thinks being such just click on
get API key you'll get an API key it's
that simple just log in log in very
simple login form they'll give you a
couple of keys now in this in this in
this example I'll do slightly different
from what I have done for the Google API
in Google API we use the speech
recognition package right in in that we
use the speech recognition package which
did all of the calling all of that stuff
for us in this example for bing search
we will implement the API calling from
scratch using or Python only we will not
use any libraries again there are
libraries to use being self JPS also but
again if you recall when we use Google
compute platform speech to text what did
we use we loaded this library called
speech recognition which would call all
of them without us having to worry about
it it was like loading a package making
a function call in the case in this in
this example we'll do something slightly
different what we'll do now is we will
write the code for API calling from
scratch using core Python libraries okay
I want to show you how you can implement
it yourself you don't have to always
depend on a library like speech
revolution right so I just wanted to
show you that okay so let's let's go
into this okay so this is my the code
might be slightly longer than previous
one but I will go step by step that's
okay it's disconnected but that's okay
not a problem
again I'm sharing my quotes please don't
use my codes
sorry sorry sorry sorry okay so please
don't use my keys here okay let's go
step by step just like in the previous
case from google collab import to drive
I'm just going to load Google Drive if I
need to again I have just written the
steps here right very simple
again to be very clear all this work is
not just my work it so what done by my
whole team tons of people I think this
was done by by by a couple of our very
good machine learning engineers who
collected the data who wrote all this
code comments all that stuff I am just
the presenter please understand that I'm
just I'm just a conduit to share the
knowledge that's it
I think I've done just maybe a couple of
edits to this code but most of it was
done by my team anyway so these are the
steps so once you want to go once you go
to this one you get your keys you get a
couple of keys right so these are the
keys that we got again this is free for
seven days but after that again please
don't use our keys because they'll total
and stop us you please generate your own
keys okay so that you can again remember
if you use a case if everybody uses our
keys what happens is our account will
get blocked nobody can use it so please
get your own API Keys API key looks like
an alphanumeric thing here not a JSON
file like in Google right we got a
couple of keys okay now what are we
doing here simple first we will load
this Bing search v7 subscription key we
are creating this variable and we are
saying input subscription sticky what
does this do it will ask me to input it
so I am just I am just giving this as
the input so this variable beings have
to be seven subscription key will
contain this key value enough again I am
repeating it please don't user case
create your own keys and use it so that
you can try more stuff and for every
different service you have to get a
different key these keys are only for
big a big being a web search API version
7 ok
so simple ok now let's go let's go let's
let's go and use this so let's go step
by step I am importing operating system
package in this and what am I doing here
in my operating system I am creating an
environment called Bing such be 7
subscription key this is basically
creating an environment variable in my
operating system that's it and for this
environment variable I am just copying
whatever is the key that I have stored
in this variable earlier that's it
nothing fancy here now let's go a little
down okay so let's go step by step now
here there is some code
so I'll explain you step by step and
carefully I think there was a comment
which said can you explain how headers
everything works internally I'll show
you with this example
okay so first and foremost because Jason
as I told you is a very popular format
for all of this I am importing Jason we
all know about OS this is pretty print
to print beautifully requests right so
requests and responses are important
packages that we can use okay so imagine
if my search query the search query
itself is Microsoft cognitive services
this is what I want to search so if I go
to Bing look at this if I go to Bing if
I just go to Bing okay funny I'm going
to bring by a Google right
Microsoft search or cognitive services
what is it what does the search okay
suppose if I just search Microsoft
cognitive services here okay so these
are all the search results that I am
getting here I can get all of them
through the API con that's the best part
okay so let's go so again if you because
we're implementing the API calling from
from scratch there are a few important
parts the first one is called as headers
remember what how does that work whole
thing work we make a request and we get
a response right this is the model right
so that's why I've inputted requests so
when I send a request I have something
called as a header within the header all
the key important stuff especially
things like your API keys are stored
right so the request that I sent from my
computer to the asier computer so this
is the easier computer this is my
personal this is my local computer so in
the request that I send I am creating a
header and within the header I am saying
my API subscription key this part is
important this part is fixed for the key
all that I say this is I'm storing is a
key value pair if you think about it I
am storing my API subscription key as
this money first and foremost back again
when I send my request I also send
headers
that headers is a standard terminology
in APA calling right headers typically
contain the most important information
like your piece okay now comes the fun
part now look at this what am i what am
i loading here I told you that all the
requests and response right all the
requests and response is happening
through HTTP protocol request response I
mean we are going to use HTTP protocol
URLs all of that stuff right so I'm
importing HTTP client you are a Lib what
is the purpose of URL Lib it is because
because I am using the Internet to
Internet protocols right URL is part of
the Internet Protocol this is to make a
request this is to parse if there are
any errors and things like that again I
am using JSON because my output is in
JSON format okay now we can this this is
my important function my function is
called search okay so this function is
where I'll actually make the call
so let's go step by step here I'm just
still on whatever done I have just
imported everything I've created a
header my header contained my key rest
of it I have just imported everything
now let's go
this function is very important so what
are the three inputs to the function
whatever is my search query then there
are two other butts offset and count
now imagine search results if you notice
typically you get thousands of search
results offset basically says do you
want us to return or are you requesting
for search results starting from zero if
count and how see offset basically says
which search result do you want do you
want your search results to start with
zero which basically means the first or
do you want to start the search results
from 100 so do you want results from 100
to let's say 110 if you want results
from 100 to 110 what do you do you say
offset equals 200 count equals to 10 you
want 10 come 10 results starting from
the hundredth result right so this is
how I'm defining my function ok this is
this is this a local function rimmel but
I have not yet called anything so offset
basically says at what count of the
search result I am starting count
basically says how many search results I
want back simple now comes this now look
at all the parameters that we want to
pass again remember we have created our
header we have created our header in
which we created we added her API key
right now we are creating the parameters
in the parameters what do I again
parameters are stored as key value pairs
and I'm going to in Sirica this is the
URL Lib dot parse what am I doing here I
am going to write them as key value
pairs here and I'm going to encode them
using the URL Lib because the whole web
ApS work using web protocols like URL
like HTTP etc so look at this this is my
query my count my offset what is a
market again these words are given to me
by being API itself being a places
whatever query you want to give give it
with q.how whatever count you want count
offset you want what what market what
results we want results in India or d1
results in u.s.
so the MKT basically means which market
output you want NUS which means English
in the US do you want safe search
results right if you want to be
kid-friendly etc you should make it safe
such the default is safe search is
moderate so what all I am a passing here
my header contains the key my params
right with parameters contain everything
else and all this is encoded in the URL
itself when I'm making the call right so
this part basically I am creating all of
my parameters
next comes the interesting very very
interesting part this see till now I
haven't called anything now comes this
pry catch part or try exception so look
at this so this is basically exception
handling if there is any error that
happens here I'll catch the exception in
print it otherwise what am I doing here
I am connecting what am i connecting to
I am connecting to API tour cognitive
dot microsoft.com
what am i doing I am doing HTTP secure
connection see what protocol is it is it
using its using HTTP secure protocol
which means my computer love is
connecting to the API cognitive services
Microsoft my computer is now cut my
local computer is connecting to the
server and to which URL is it connecting
it's connecting to API cognitive dot
microsoft.com it's connecting to this
but once it establishes a connection it
says my request now it establish the
connection first then it says I want to
make a request
and this is a get request which means
I'm sending something and I want to get
some data back and what do I want to
send this to I want to say what do I
want to call on this website I want to
go to Bing V 7.0 and such and what do I
want to search with all of my parameters
that I have now right and the body is
there then all the headers why do I need
headers for authentication look at this
look look at this line itself first I
establish a connection then I make a
request where do I request I request to
Bing a question seven API and I am
saying such with all my search
parameters that I have all the
parameters that I have and I'm using the
headers for authentication
now what happens now look at this first
I established a connection I sent a
request now I'll get a response back so
from this connection I will get a
response
now this response I am storing it in a
variable called response from this
response I want to get the data so this
data here is response no trade once I
got the response I want to close the
connection okay this is very simple so
what is the first thing establish a
connection establish then request then
you get response when you send a request
you send you basically say I want to get
this data and what I want to call is the
version seven API with these such
parameters with these API keys once I
get a response I just say let's close it
close this connection that's it
this four lines is where all the API
magic is happening right again this is
the native way of actually calling my
babies what I've shown you with Google
search or sorry Google speech
recognition he is using a library within
the library they actually write code
like this now I walk my search results
my search results are in data so how do
I print my search results now look at
this this function returns JSON loads
data this data is going to convert into
JSON and send it as my output right now
now let's let's see okay now I got all
my data in JSON format now I want to
print it it's very simple look at this
so okay so look at this I'm calling the
such function what is the such function
of this such function I'm calling enough
till on whatever done I've just defined
this function and not called anything
I'm calling this such function with my
with my query which is magnitude of
Microsoft cognitive services offset zero
count five after this I get my output
I'm just printing them so all this this
part is all about printing my results
because my results are in key value
pairs I'm just printing my results here
this is just printing my results now
this type of printing is slightly
trickier to read because what is it
giving you it is giving you webpages
outputs the web URLs all of that stuff
it is giving your related searches it is
giving you videos it is giving you all
of that stuff but if you want to format
this look at this if again this is very
very hard to read this is very lengthy
because this is all in JSON format you
just have to you just have to write
simple code in Python like this through
which you can print the data carefully
see all this code is okay my websites
URL is this okay what is my website URL
bing.com search my queries Microsoft
cognitive services how many are the
estimated matches there are these many
three three there are 15 million how
matches that are there right then what
are all the outputs that I have look at
this is family friendly these are all
the URLs that I have again you can just
print again the rest of the code here is
all about printing the data because this
all this is all about printing because
what I have is JSON data right the data
that I got from Microsoft search back
all this all this code is all about just
printing in each web page
so look at this this is this is simple
nested for loop here again try play with
this so what are we doing here look at
this okay let's look at this code okay
so I got my I got my result look at this
so how did this work okay let's go one
step ahead so my result is I call this
such function I got my result all right
so within this result if I want to print
it beautifully Sorry Sorry Sorry Sorry
Sorry Sorry Sorry Sorry Sorry Sorry
I closed it by mistake okay I'd had to
execute the whole thing
that's okay we can again it's fairly
simple you can understand this so what
this does is in the results for each
webpage for each value please print the
information that I want right so you can
literally get okay all the webpage visit
results and the descriptions also
you can also get videos okay let's look
at the video select this is easy to
understand so in the results there are
videos pick all the items that you have
from each of them again we pick these we
carefully wrote this down to get this
printing carefully right so these are
all the search results that you get
literally I mean you can print the way
you want look at this if you want videos
right so it gives you all this
information in the okay let's let's go
through this this is like a for loop
again this is similarly for video very
simple code for video in results so let
me explain this code public that that's
a good idea
so that you understand rest of the code
easily so our result is in rests now I
want the video results and taking all
the values for video in this right I'm
getting key value pairs of all items in
the videos now I'm basically printing
this so what do I get now I get my
website URL look at this this is not
this is the title so when you when you
do being searched right where is being
searched okay look at this
okay okay this I search Microsoft
cognitive services what is my first
result here real-time recognition with
Microsoft cognitive services this is a
video result look at the result that we
got here the first result is real-time
face recognition with Microsoft
cognitive services this is the name of
the video so you can get the name of the
video look at all the information that
we are getting the description of this
video okay so I think if you just click
on this there is description also that
you can get right then what do you have
you have thumbnail URL okay the date on
which this is published the date on
which this video was published look at
this Jan 17th right so it tells you 2019
Jan 17th who is the publisher YouTube is
a publisher is this act in this video
accessible for free true where is the
video found what is the video format
what is the length of the video what is
the height of the video what is the
duration of the video I think it's 45
minutes something right 44 minutes 8
seconds that's the length of the video
look at this it says 44 minutes 8
seconds PT basically means playtime okay
look at all this information the very
first video result what am I doing here
Microsoft cognitive search microd of
Microsoft cognitive services videos this
is a first result all the information
that is here is given to me in code all
of this is given to me in code right so
again this is just all about getting the
results and printing them see what what
what is this whole code doing this whole
code is simply printing the results
beautifully that's it that's all it's
doing what is in a readable format not
in a JSON which is slightly trickier to
read but Jason is also easy to hit now
whatever we have done we can also do it
for images also again or there is this
very nice page that I forgot to talk
about okay
so what you can do here is look at this
big web search you can try it in action
I really like this so for example okay
so there is this default one so if you
want to try how it works again this is
the Python way of doing it right there
is something called as is your
playground so in is your playground
again I provide this link to you Bing
web search ape so what you can do is
whatever such query you give here and
you can give the markets you can say
English India you want strict safe
search do you want freshness freshness
also is another parameter that you can
give do you want results only from the
last one week okay this is the moment I
give this such results the JSON file
that I get is actually looks like this
I wonder let me zoom this in a little
the JSON file that I get actually looks
like this what we have done in this is
basically print the JSON file in a way
that you can easily read so if you
actually called Bing API with this
burrito recipes burrito is a Mexican
Mexican delicacy right or it's it's
something like a roti like roti curry
the way we have roti curry burrito is a
is a Mexican food item if I just if my
if
search queries burrito recipes with
English India save such being strict and
freshness being one week then what do I
get when I call this function look at
this when I call this when I call this
whole again most of this code is not
lengthy most of this code is only
outputs that you see the the core part
of the code is just this this 20 lines
of code is the code part this 20 lines
of code literally this 20 lines is the
core part of calling the API that's it
right so the the JSON file that you get
is like this again there are direct
jason readers you can read this file and
print it the way you want look at look
at all look at all the data it gives you
it tells you what are the estimated
matches right then what is the first
first output
what is the ID how would I call this
okay when was this page crawled by Bing
what is the name of the web page what is
a URL and it also gives you a small
snippet
look at this if I go to if I go to
Google and search sorry if I go to if I
go to Bing and search this burrito
recipes okay look at this so it gave me
this and it this is the description part
so what is giving me is it's giving me
the title it's giving me the URL it's
giving me the text it's also giving me
other information like when was this
page crawled by Bing right because most
likely being good crawl just a few days
after or maybe very soon after the very
soon after the the page was created
being as a search engine crawls on this
right so look at all the results that
you get now your big question could be
why do I need Bing Search API I'll tell
you something very interesting give let
me give an example okay suppose your
training uh suppose you are training a
deep learning model I mean let me give
you an example suppose you're training a
deep learning model and you want let's
say images of images of images of knife
right you want images of my flat set
okay you don't have enough images how do
you get all the images of knife
you can go to google search but you how
to download these images of knife and
this is this important right how do you
download these images of knives because
you want to suppose you want to build a
model for some safety or whatever
suppose there is a web there is a camera
that let's assume at a school if anybody
is carrying a knife or Atta or a place
of worship or a sensitive place anybody
carrying a knife it should simply stop
that person right or come knife or gun
whatever you want right which means you
need images of knife or gun to train the
model how do you get this data it's very
simple you just have to call Bing Search
API with image search so what we have
done till now is web search right we can
write similar code for image search also
let me show you okay so query two one
second so you can also search for
persons suppose if you search with my
name right you will get both again you
can just call such with my name here
right and what you get now is basically
you can get my images also okay it also
gives you alternative spellings so my
original query is let's say what what it
is okay I think my team forgot to put H
here so if the original query is
reconfirm a chicory without h it says
there are alternative queries with h so
it is sort of like correcting right
small V capital V so a small C capital C
it also tells you alternative queries
that you can get
so what Bing Search API gives you is
tremendous amount of information that
you can use now that we also have done
again I recommend that you go through
this line by line but most of what we
have from here it's simply about this
for loops that we have shown and
printing some data that you can see
basically that that's what once you call
the Bing API get the data you just have
to print it in whichever way you want
now let's see if we can do the same
thing for images also okay images is
very interesting so I think we
implemented a function for images where
is that query context being searched API
query to webpages
just give me a second I mean a big Image
Search API so what have you done here
this is for image search the code is
very similar except that we also import
a library called image because we want
to play with images right look at this
we are writing a function called show
image where we are using matplotlib PLT
is naturally bright
we have inputted matplotlib spld we also
return this function called show image
to show an image actually right so if I
have any image I can actually show that
given a you URL of the image this show
image function let's see what it does
let Kirsten mr. Penniman the show image
function takes the URL and the title of
the image right so again here and what
am i using what am i doing here request
dot get I am getting the I am sending
the URL using the request response model
because that's what the internet uses
right I'm going to get whatever is this
whatever is there in this URL I'm going
to get that image this is the image URL
I'm going to get there I'm going to get
that output stored in the response now
now look at this whatever is there in
the response I'm going to convert it to
image using my pil from p.m. i am
importing image so image that open
response dot raw so this basically gives
me an image IMG is not the image now i
can plot the IMG using my Mac plot lip I
am show right so what this function does
is given a web URL it uses the request
response thing that we have discussed
right it requests from this URL to get
the image and it loads this so whatever
is the output that I got this is a
binary output that I have right it
converts that into image using image dot
open then it plots the image that's what
this function does now
now there is a second function that I am
defining it's called search images again
the search images is exactly like the
search function look at this I have a
query I have offset count I have my
parameters I have my connection
establishment this logic is exactly the
same look at this this logic is exactly
the same the only difference is I am
using images then search so I'm going to
API cognitive microsoft.com but when I'm
requesting for something I am saying I
want to get
the data that is there and where do I
want to get it from bingo V version 7.0
images the only difference between this
function and the previous function is
this function has images the previous
function does not have images the moment
you have images here what you are doing
is an image search rest everything is
the same you have the parameters you
have the headers everything the same you
establish a connection you request for
the data you get a response back and you
close the connection that's it now when
you get the image look at this what is
this giving you this web search this
image search gives you image URLs so
suppose if you if you write this code
right suppose if I search for Bill Gates
as my search query offset zero count for
right from from the results that I am
getting I'm just printing them what does
this give me it says okay look at this
let me just go ahead
it gives me URLs it gives me a website
URL this is the search URL or else if
you if you print if you expand this and
print it carefully what it gives you is
okay this is the search URL what is a
search URL Bing calm images search blah
blah blah right where is the thumbnail
here is the thumbnail so if I go here
open link in new tab this is I think
this is Bill Gates home if I'm not wrong
okay this is one of the outputs that I
get okay this is query expansion because
the search here is Bill Gates house
right it also see what what Bing also
gives you is being says related searches
if you go to Bing in general right look
at this if I search for let's say Bill
Gates let me search for it Bill Gates
images it tells me other things about
Bill Gates that people search for Steve
Jobs Bill Gates Bill Gates childhood
Bill Gates Yard
Bill Gates Net Worth William Bill Gates
Bill Gates inventions Bill Gates son all
this stuff these are all relative
related searches right so being also
gives you that where were we sorry being
also gives you all that it gives you
Bill Gates sayings Bill Gates quote Bill
Gates references so you can get all this
as part of your search result also right
it also gives you like for example the
Steve Jobs I
they're called as P what suggestions P
but again there is huge amount of data
that being throws at you right you just
have to process them because because if
you look at your response Jason the
response Jason that you get it's
actually huge it gives you a website URL
it gives you query context it gives you
tons of data look at this in query
expansions this is the output Jason that
we got right and query expansions it
tells you other similar such items P
word suggestions it tells you about Bill
Gates people who search for Bill Gates
also search for also search for Steve
Jobs here look at this look at that line
right again gives you multiple links
people also search for Melinda Gates who
is Bill Gates wife right it gives you so
Bing Search API gives you a lot of data
that you can use of course not where are
the images so let's go a little down
these are P word suggestions related
searches again he made search results
now look at this so I'm taking the
thumbnail URL look at what is this code
doing this code is saying whatever is
the result that I got whatever is the
result Jason that I got within that go
to menu and show the image of the
thumbnail URL see show image function we
have seen a while ago right it says show
image print or or show the image of the
thumbnail URL so it shows the image then
I want to print a bunch of data again
below that so what does it say look at
this what does okay one second let me go
down here okay so this page has become
little small so let's look at this
printing code right again I'll show you
one printing code rest everything looks
the same first in my results I want to
go to the values right in the Val look
at this is a for loop this is a for loop
within that there is one more for loop
within this for loop I'm calling this
function called show image whatever is
the result or the value thumbnail URL
showing to me I am showing the thumbnail
URL then whatever whatever other
information is there just printed so if
you actually scroll down here what do
you get you get you get the image URL
you get the web search that you got what
is the name of this image bill gates net
worth five fact five fast facts you need
to know the thumbnail URL when
this published is this family-friendly
or is this objectionable content what is
the content URL what is the content size
what is the format of the image what is
the width of the image what is the
height of the image
what is the thumbnail width what is the
thumbnail this thing I mean the accent
colors so tons of information that it
gives you just for one result this is
one result right of course because we
have put everything in a loop right you
will print all this I think we searched
for four results this is a second
thumbnail image again what is the name
of this bla bla bla bla bla all this
information that you can very simple
again all of these code snippets that we
have here are mostly meant for printing
the data of the results that we got so
don't get overwhelmed by this just go
through this line by line I have
explained a couple of them rest
everything is the same
this sheet might feel long but this fee
this because because the results are
long okay this whole thing when I start
printing this information this get
because I want to printed it I wanted to
print it carefully for you the size
after I print looks looks large but the
code itself is simple for loops right it
is I mean they're literally two major
functions one is the image search api
function that we have done show image
and the regular search that's it the
most
again this whole printing function you
can write it the way you want we have it
we have it on one of the ways that we
could think of it's all about just
printing the results all this is just
printing the results now okay so as we
thought you can use the Image Search API
to collect data of a specific person for
example you can collect images of cell
phones or you can collect images of
weapons like guns or knives etc right so
again the whole purpose of this was okay
so two things just let me quickly recap
what we have learnt so in in the Bing
Search API we have learned both the web
search and the image search we have
learned how the API calling itself works
from scratch that's very important using
the request response connection right
using connection request response that's
the most important part
my rest my results I get it in JSON
format then we have written some print
commands to print the output in a
easy-to-read format that's all we have
done to be honest with you it's fairly
simple you can do this you can do all of
this in an afternoon
actually this was one of the live
sessions for which I took the least
amount of time to prepare I think even
the team has taken least amount time to
prepare because this is so easy from a
coding perspective right so that that's
the key takeaway so I hope I hope you
have gotten a sense of how to use Google
API and Bing API let me just change the
screen to the webcam quickly and let me
answer a few questions that you may have
because so somebody says can't we use a
request module for Google as we use it
in Bingen yes you can you can you can
see them we wanted to show you two ways
of doing it okay we want to show you in
the speech recognizer part we have
actually used another library that takes
care of establishing the connection
request response all of that that's one
way of doing it the other way the way we
have shown it with Bing is to do the
connection part yourself establish the
connection yourself send the request
parameters headers yourself get the
response process it to yourself right we
want to show you two ways on two
different the Google one you can write
it using the connection request response
header you can do it yourself you don't
have to use the speech recognizer thing
but you want to show you two ways of
doing it even for Bing search I think
there is a Python package let me just
share the screen and search it right in
front of you
Bing search Bing search picked see look
at this pie being searched okay so you
can just install this package called
pie bing search I just Google search
right now you can just say pip install
pie being searched and the function
calling will be trivial look at this
look at what I mean they'll give you
some small snippet of code like this
where is this okay look at this so
okay look look at this limit of code
here from PI being such import piping
web search the search term is Python
Software Foundation by members just call
this that's it done you're done you get
all your results right so there for most
web api s-- there are also libraries so
then you don't have to establish the
connection and do everything yourself so
that is also there but we want to show
you two different ways of doing it one
using existing pre-existing libraries
one doing it from scratch do we need to
import any certificate of back-end
system when we are calling like for
example in the google system right we
have used the API the JSON file the the
API key door Jason we send it as part of
our request to the Google server
similarly for being we had this
alphanumeric API key that we sent that's
good enough again different web ApS have
different ways of doing it
some of them also have a file that you
need to have on your computer and things
like that the simplest is basically
passing the JSON the API key file or the
API key itself as part of the headers or
somebody says okay
content download an image directly from
google why do I need an API very good
question so the problem is if you if you
try to manually download images how many
can you download they'll take you tons
of time to download these images you
want to write a program leave it
overnight get all the data you want next
day you can train manually doing it is
just too cumbersome number one number
two the other alternative is we have
done a live session on that also which
is web scraping I kind of web scraped
the whole damn thing I can I can write
Python code using a web scraper using
good beautifulsoup script the whole damn
thing but then most companies like
Google Bing etc will block you the
moment they realize that you are trying
to scrape their search results they'll
block you and that is the unethical way
because Google doesn't want you to
scrape their search results and being
also doesn't want to scrape their search
results it's an unethical way of getting
it
and they're fairly smart they'll block
you in no time right the legit way or
the reasonably correct way is to use
this ApS because these APIs are provided
by the companies for example as part of
our codes right we have this Amazon
Amazon products or Amazon fashion search
that we have built now how did we build
that how do we get the data I think we
have a few hundred thousand images for
that we didn't crawl from Amazon because
we know Hamilton will block us so Amazon
also has something called as Amazon
product advertising API through which
you can go and get images from Amazon we
have actually done a case study on that
right we haven't done a live session on
how to scrape results but please don't
scrape if there is any API available
please don't scrape the web use the API
that is a legit form of doing it and it
took us like a week to get because
Amazon says you can't you can't request
you can do more than these many requests
per day or per hour so what did we do
waited for a week we got like hundred
thousand-plus signages and we built a
fashion recommendation system this is
part of our case studies actually right
is Google collab a free tool yes as of
now it is free it works fairly well also
again we did not use Google collab
extensively when we designed the course
earlier because it was not stable then
but nowadays it's becoming very stable
and we are also sharing Google call have
notebooks towards students all the new
stuff that we'll be doing will start
sharing Google collab notebooks and
again you can take a google collab
notebook and make it into an eye python
on jupiter notebook or ipython notebook
and run it on your laptop or desktop
also can you send keys in params yes you
can again every every web api has their
own small glitches you have to read the
documentation carefully right you'll be
slightly careful like the way Google
might say this is how you have to pack
again most of these companies will give
you sample code you can call the base in
any programming language you don't have
to use Python I know people who call
them in JavaScript people can call it in
Perl people can call it in Ruby that you
can call it in many languages as long as
the language supports internet protocols
I know some people who call it evil in
C++ by importing some internet by
like Marie's like HTTP HTTP base etc you
can call it from Java you can call it
from any major programming language as
long as a programming language supports
internet protocols now the most
important thing here is how that how to
use how to call that exact API using
your programming language most companies
provide you sample code like for Google
AWS is your you get sample code you just
follow that sample code it's much much
quicker yes you can do it for Facebook
API a Twitter API and Netflix API you
name it the exact format of the API the
keys look at this Google had an API JSON
file being had just an API key so for
every cloud based or web based a
parameter there is a subtle difference
there is a small difference on how they
have you pass keys how you pass
parameters there is a subtle difference
but if you just read through the
documentation it should be
straightforward so somebody says is
OpenCV useful in real time projects why
not there are a lot of computer vision
stuff for which OpenCV is used of course
if you want if you are talking
specifically about object recognition
tasks deep learning is the cutting edge
but again we have done a couple of case
studies and on images and video in our
course we have used OpenCV primarily two
preprocessor data for example we have
used open CV to take images resize them
convert them from color to greyscale all
of this simple image pre-processing you
can do it very very efficiently in open
seaming there are some ok open CV is not
just which pre-processing there is also
multi-view geometry etcetera based on
which I will I didn't start up earlier
in in 2010 where we use some of those
technologies so don't write off any
library especially a big library like
open CV because you can do some really
fun stuff with open CV ok but if you
want to do object recognition type stuff
it's better to use pre trained models in
tensorflow or carers or pi torch how do
I learn to create APs
very good question so actually we have
done a live session earlier that's why I
don't want to
feed that in this life session so if you
know Python there is something called as
flask just google search for it it is
extremely simple to learn right flask is
the primary library that is used to
create api's in API is in Python so we
have done a live session I don't I don't
remember whether it is a public live
session or only for the registrations I
do not remember it it's I've done it
like almost a year ago almost a year ago
I guess where we have we have taught how
to build a web api using flask and how
to deploy it on an AWS computer but it's
fairly simple even if you are not a
student just Google search for it read
about flask right flask is the important
part
flask again just search for how to build
web api using flask in Python you will
get tons of tutorials it should be easy
if you know Python it should be simple
so somebody says should use flask or
Django you can use either of them they
are just two different ways of doing it
you can use both of them they both work
very well I prefer flask personally
because flask is much more lightweight
mostly designed for web api s-- django
is a full-fledged web development
platform right if you want to develop
the whole website backend of a website
django is like a very powerful software
so Django's purpose is much bigger than
flask flask is very limited to mostly
creating web api is basic request
response type stuff while django is a
much bigger much bigger platform or a
much bigger like brewery so that's why
it's easier to use that's why I prefer
flask but if you know Django please feel
free to you jungle again somebody says
do we need to learn opportunity cans
concepts to start learning flask and
Django C optional programming is a big
area okay it's a massive area what you
need to know is the basics you need to
know what is a class you need to know
what is an object you need to know what
is a constructor you need to know how to
call functions within a class if you
know this maybe you might have to know
little bit about inheritance
a bit okay you don't have to know
advanced concept about object or design
all of those advanced topics you don't
require if you know the basics you can
learn again again if you know this
concept from any programming language if
you know let's say classes objects
basics of inheritance basics of what is
a constructor how do you call functions
within a class if you know that even in
Java you can learn that you can start
learning any any any object along which
if you noted C++ also chalica Athan is
slightly different in some aspects but
to learn flask and jaco you don't have
to be an expert at object under design
object-oriented design patterns all of
that you don't have to be you just have
to know the basic stuff so somebody says
a very good question
so a peers can be called a either using
HTTP or HTTPS again it depends on the
designer of the API s basically means
you get a secure layer on top of HTTP so
everything is encrypted and things like
that but anyway I mean we know again
it's a choice that the API designer
chose right you can have HTTP based
ApS or HTTP based the only major
advantage is HTTP based once is it's a
more secure connection everything is
encrypted in things like that right so
to be a machine learning engineer do we
need to be master in core Python so I
don't know what core Python is but at
least you need to know the basics let me
tell you what you need to know as far as
python is concerned you have to know
basic offense variables basic data
structures like like dictionary list
basic data structures okay you have to
know basics of for loops while function
calls function parameters returning from
a function what is a class what is an
object what is a constructor if you know
these concepts and if you are
comfortable with programming if you can
write like decent nested for-loops for a
given task I think that's good enough
of course you have to learn other
libraries for machine
right you have to learn matplotlib for
plotting your to learn pandas for all
data data related stuff to load data you
to learn um PI sci-fi for basic
mathematical transforms you to learn
scikit-learn for basic machine learning
algorithms you have to learn tensorflow
Kerris for deep learning stuff but
libraries come and go right libraries
come and go if you're like I've learned
quite a long long ago libraries came
libraries went but the most important
what is I know how to write basic decent
Python code again I am NOT an expert in
software development like you would
scale it off for development like some
of my principal engineers or senior
engineer at Amazon but I can do decent
work so my knowledge of Python is good
enough that I can learn and pick up a
new library that comes that's good
enough for all practical reasons is
security necessary for API in machine
learning that depends on the company
that's implementing for example some
companies might say we want we want to
use HTTP for security because this is
more like anyway your API key itself is
could be encrypted end-to-end and things
like that but equally important the
message there is sensitive information
like audio so we want to encrypt it all
that stuff it's a decision of the
designer okay sounds good folks I think
speech to SQL queries can do this using
API you taught us today No so of course
if you say hey if you say SQL
specifically if you clearly say select
star from so-and-so table blah blah blah
join this that if you say that in
English I think it can do a decent job
but again remember that Google speech to
text is not is not trained on SQL
queries per se but I think speaking not
SQL queries is very hard I mean at least
I can't think of it I'm better off
writing it and seeing what I am writing
what I am typing correcting it as I go I
can't close my eyes and read off an SQL
query at the top of my head I don't
think I can do it
so okay somebody says what is tensorflow
okay so again tensorflow is a open
source deep learning library built at
google open source used
extensively in deep learning so if you
ever end up learning deep learning
tensorflow might be one of the most
important libraries along with carers
and maybe pi torch that you should learn
right okay sounds good guys are all the
very best and I think I think I have had
a good session thank you one and all for
your time but please give me a few hours
time because I need to sanitize our
ipython odarka lab notebooks I will
provide the collab notebook links so
that you can copy them use it on your
drive I'll also provide the key folders
or such the key files and the folders
that you need to run especially the
google speech-to-text
the google speech-to-text one which is
basically your requirements file your
your parts folder and your audio file
right API key I cannot share because it
is ours you will have to create your own
API key dorje cell and put it in you in
that folder right so anyway I'll put it
just give me some time by evening I'll
do that couple of hours give it to me
and I will do it see you folks thank you
very much thank you very much for your
time and yeah bye-bye
