hey friends very good morning I'm a few
minutes early just to ensure and check
if everything is working all right if
you have any issues do let me know on
the on the chat window they just see how
everything is working yeah I can hear
myself yeah I can hear myself and I
don't see any hiccups I can see my own
light stream on your too so yeah if
anybody has any issues do let me know
and we'll start the session at 10:05
sharp so that other people also can get
some a few minutes of time to join in
hey I'm doing good thanks for asking us
it there thank you yeah I'm doing good
and let's get started yeah I'll keep the
I'll keep the chat window let's chat for
a while hey good morning everyone thanks
for joining in and yeah so as I was just
mentioning we'll start in about 8 to 10
minutes in the meantime if you have
questions I could answer them let's let
everybody join in I typically tend to
join at least four or five minutes early
to see if there are any problems with
the audio or video streaming so yeah so
somebody says I'm working on our TA
project where and we automate mundane
business processes using Python and
selenium I'm keen on using text
classification combined with selenium
that's a very good task actually I do
cover that as one of the case studies or
one of the projects that people who know
selenium who are in the automation world
or who are in the automated testing
world can certainly work on selenium is
an extremely powerful tool that I have
personally used while I was at Amazon
again with other tools again it was
mostly engineers in my team who who are
leveraging it but it's a super-duper
powerful tool makes a lot of sense
solution so if you are working on our
peer problems doing text classification
again for text classification don't use
selenium a which is which you can use
both in java and python
I recommend you use the Python version
of selenium primarily because because of
the fundamental reason that Python has
better machine learning and deep
learning and text classification
libraries than Java itself so if you
don't know you can write selenium code
in Python also just almost as well as
you can write it in Java so try to use
Python there and that will that'd share
will be surely be helpful so how is
real-time sentiment analysis on
e-commerce website so what sentiment are
you analyzing so what sentiment own
e-commerce website are you analyzing so
then that's very important for example
if you go to Amazon yeah it's also there
on Amazon India so whenever you are
looking at any product I think this is
something that they launched in the last
one year or so it's very useful they go
through all the comments of the
customers and they summarize that on the
left side okay let me show you this let
me show you that's ok let me just share
my screen ok so let's take an example I
hope everybody can okay why is it not
going to order let's just go to
amazon.com ok so they just go here pick
up any product ok so let's take this
product for example okay which is Amazon
Alexa so if you go here look at this
part I hope everybody can see my screen
right look at this part it talks about
by feature so it look it looks at all of
the customer reviews groups the customer
reviews by feature if you look at this
section ok let me take by I'm pen and
right on top of this right so for
example if you look at this part right
this is a very very interesting part for
work that if you want to do on Amazon or
any e-commerce website so nobody wants
to read this there are 1691 comments
nobody has time to go through all of
them so if you can somehow read all of
these comments and if you can summarize
it by feature like LXi integration voice
recognition remote control volume
control if you can summarize all of this
that's a that's a great feature because
this improves the customers ability to
understand what is there in these
thousands of reviews right so this is
certainly one interesting project
pursue if you bring some sentiment
analysis if you bring some sentiment
analysis work on hamsun I think somebody
was asking this question right so that's
an interesting project that you could
work on right okay let's see so okay so
somebody is asking about bird again we
are doing these live sessions regularly
we did weighted encoder and decoder
models the last week next week we'll be
doing next week we will be doing these
attention models and the week after that
we'll do your transformer models and
then but for each of them we do explain
for all of our course registered
students wear anyway covering his
advanced topics up to birth as
extensions to what we have already
covered in our course videos so that's
something that we're anyway doing enough
okay so somebody says he can't he can't
crack coding interviews of competitive
coding and he wants to get it to Google
brain please forget it
you will never so if you really want to
get into forget about Google bring
Google brainy is one of the most
advanced projects at Google even if you
want to become a software engineer at
Google you have to crack google's
software engineering or google's
competitive programming or competitive
coding around the bar for Google brain
is much much higher so in addition to
your coding skills especially vehicle
design student they look at how deep and
how broad is your knowledge in machine
learning deep learning advanced areas so
if you can't crack Google's simple
coding rounds forget about Google brain
it's it's out of question it's like
saying I want to know I want to do a PhD
without doing without passing my BTech
okay this is what you're asking is
analogous to this okay Suns good
manufacturing IT projects I am unable to
get some datasets Naveen I'll talk about
some of these problems in the life
in the live session today and also tell
you about some interesting I look at
manufacturing problems themselves there
are some interesting data sets from
mercedes-benz from Bosch some of the
largest companies in manufacturing and
industrial engineering so I'll give you
the pointers by the end of this live
session you'll get some pointers on that
topic also so ok somebody's talking
about networks right so again I have not
made notes for networks themselves but
I've seen a couple of very interesting
projects which have worked on on if
you're a network engineer right so a
couple of things again you can google
search for this the network engineers at
Google's data centers have come up with
ways on using machine learning and deep
learning to save on the cooling costs
right because imagine imagine if you
have a huge data center the costs to
just run the data center humongous so
there is a lot of research work and also
published work that you can go and look
up on which network engineers do
obviously another very major thing that
networking units do is information is
network security broadly speaking and
there are a ton of startups there just
Google search for network security ok
let me do it for you it should be
straightforward and I'm sure we can
easily find these so network security
and deep learning just like cattle
you'll get datasets also fairly easily
ok so there is actually a whole area
called network security on cattle with
with ok so this is not much of a data
set here a metaphor
look at this there is there is this
github project which is machine learning
for cyber security right wins with
papers books data sets all of this stuff
courses tutorials all of this stuff so
for most of the projects they're only a
Google search away again I am NOT a
domain expert in many of these topics so
for example look at this ok email 2016
cybersecurity attack defender ok so this
is also interesting ok this is a
university course project good you get
data set on Kangol very
easily now you want to determine if
there is a cybersecurity attack as a
network engineer that's something that
is certainly exciting right again
I'm okay there is also malicious intent
detection problem on cable
oh I forgot completely Microsoft malware
prediction this is one of the case
studies in our course actually so we
have a course case study called malware
prediction malware prediction which
which with data using Microsoft's open
source data that's like terrific data
right so if you're a network engineer or
if you're into cybersecurity or network
security there are tons of projects of
that type it's just like Google search
of it again
I have no Dominick's but I've never
worked on network security of cyber
security but finding good relevant data
sets and projects should not be very
hard and should it be very hard to solve
these problems also if your core
competence in machine learning and data
science are strong right so ok I'll
cover a couple of projects for
mechanical engineers also I'll solve it
I made note of that I've looked at the
comment section in a renouncement video
I have made some notes for mechanical
engineers also because I have a little
experience because I was mentoring a
start-up which works on condition based
monitoring and predictive analytics so I
can I can shed some light on that
problem right I will cover banking and
banking and financial services also as
part of the course as part of the
examples right medicine I will cover
that I will give you some datasets and
problems also please don't worry these
are topics that have already made notes
for let's get started anyway since we
are anyway a tricked it's already 10:05
so let's get started
let me just share the screen again this
is a bunch of notes that I've written
and share this notes at the end of the
discussion you don't have to take notes
from this I will share this whole PDF
file to you with all the links with all
the material I will share it to you at
the end of the discussion I'll post it
in the comment section itself right so
don't worry about it
please don't worry about taking notes
I'm just checking if everything is all
right ok so ok let's get started first
let me do one thing since many of your
questions have
laughs let me try and cover what I have
written as my notes and at the end of it
I'll take breaks in between
I'll also entertain questions from you
and at the end of it if I could not
cover any some concepts and try to cover
them right so okay so I again please you
don't have to write notes from this
because I shared this whole document
with you okay sounds good let's get
started then let me use a reasonable
color okay so these are machine learning
projects primarily for Career Transition
the reason we are doing this life is
with real life I think three or four
weeks back wherein we discussed about
how important portfolio projects are for
career transition to machine learning
roles we discuss that in detail then we
start getting lot of emails and
questions from students saying can you
give us some idea on what types of
projects we should be doing with some
examples people want an example so I
thought let me cover a few examples and
show you how some of these projects can
be again these are just a small subset
of examples right I of course it's
impossible in a 1 R or in a 1 in a 60 to
75 minute live session it's impossible
to cover everything right so I'll try to
do the best that I can
ok so let's go here so what's the agenda
for the rest of the discussion I'll take
each roll and cover a few relevant
projects for each roll while discussing
each of these rules I'll also make I
also tell you some general guidelines ok
which are which are independent of the
role right we'll start from fresh shirts
will go to software testers will go to
software engineers will do web web
development engineers app developers
mechanical engineers all of those roles
will try to cover ok so but let's go
slowly one by one we'll take each of
these roles but a very important
disclaimer that I want to make it very
clear before we start is I am NOT an
expert in all the domains I am able to
discuss I have lot of a lot of lot of
exposure and experience in e-commerce so
I have lot of experience in e-commerce I
have not have had experience in online
advertising so these are domains I also
have some experience in search in
computer vision tasks in speech
processing etcetera but I am NOT an
expert in all the domains that I'm about
to discuss so
I'm sure some of you are more
knowledgeable than I am because imagine
if you work for five years in banking
and financial services you would know
far more than I would know able to
Lomond right so whatever I am giving
here is within the limited exposure and
experience that I have or I have read
about in domains that I'm not an expert
in so let me make that very very clear
very importantly as we mentioned even in
the previous life session that we
conducted publicly please leverage your
experience and expertise to pick up the
most relevant project the most imagine
if your two engineers working in the
same domain let's say both of you are
working in banking and financial
services right both of you could be
working on a completely different
projects one of you may be an expert in
let's say insurance or the other person
may be an expert in let's say
traditional lending right or loans right
so you should try and pick up a project
by leveraging your expertise domain
expertise in banking and financial
services pick up big projects based on
your expertise not just based on what I
am Telling You here because I will give
you general guidelines with some
examples obviously thrown in right but
somebody who has worked for five years
or even ten years in backing in five or
even two years in banking and financial
services will shortly be more
knowledgeable than I am right in that
domain because I've never worked on it
okay so let's go let's start with
freshers I will get started so that
again there are some general guidelines
here that we'll go to I'll also list
some projects most important guideline
for everyone not necessarily for
freshers even for experienced folks
please do not do generic or
run-of-the-mill projects I see lot of
people doing it like we have some
students who do not listen to our advice
we just pick up a project of their own
and they do it because it's easy to do
it nobody will carry you nobody will
care about your project when you go to
the interview pick up a project which is
exciting and interesting which the
interviewer when you at the end of the
day you want to transition to a
machine-learning role pick up a project
that your interviewer will care about
okay please do not true please do not do
in generic run-of-the-mill projects
please don't do them they're useless you
might as well not be them itself
for example I see people doing some
simple email spam detection some simple
intrusion detection zon some like
literally taught intersects at very very
simple data sets they are useless you
might as well not do them at all again
this is a general guidance not just to
freshers but anyone please do not do
run-of-the-mill generic projects like
spam detection intrusion okay
always try and pick up an exciting and
innovative project okay you should
convince again
as important as solving the machine
learning components themselves equally
important is picking up an exciting and
innovative project when you go to the
interview you want the interviewer to
look at your project and say hey I want
to learn more about this okay if a
project is something like very very
generic that he has seen hundreds of
resumes in he would not even care about
asking them so all the effort you put in
your projects is useless then so always
ask yourself is this an exciting and
innovative project so let me give you
some couple of examples again these
examples right now are for freshers I
will cover examples for experienced
folks with software engineering
background with various backgrounds but
let's start with freshers by freshers I
mean people who are in their third year
40lb deck or first year and second year
m deck right or people who are currently
pursuing their PhD right or even
similarly if you are if you are a pre
final or a final year student either
even pursuing mca or a missing computer
science any of those areas right if you
are a final year student or a pre final
year student either of your BTech M Tech
MC it doesn't matter okay so I pick up
some projects in the space that freshers
or students and come down for example
look at it if you are at a university or
a college can you automate your
attendance system this is a system that
you can build deploy within your college
or in your classroom imagine imagine
it's a very simple system this the first
project right as a student this is a
very good project for example imagine I
have an Android phone I can even buy a
decent Android phone for a thousand
rupees today during one of these
festival season sales build a simple
Android app place this camera at the
entrance of your classroom and whenever
somebody passes
it detects them and says gives automatic
attendance this is a very simple system
that colleges would love to help you on
building the cost of it is also very
small in just a five thousand rupee
smartphone you might actually have a
used smartphone at home but your parents
or siblings or your family has used and
they're no more using it simple Android
smartphone you can build an automated
attendant system imagine if you're a
fresher and you come to an interview and
say I have built this automated
attendance system with an accuracy of 99
percent which we have deployed in my
classroom or in my department I would
say wow that's very ingenious
application and then I'll talk about
okay how did you do your app development
I'll talk about what sort of libraries
did you use how did you do face
recognition how much data set you needed
this is a very interesting project and
this is not some rocket science right
this is something that any decent BTech
student who knows about deep learning
and combination neural networks who can
write again most of our core students
can easily solve this problem okay so
this is a very simple it's very
innovative as soon as you go to an
interview or interviewer will say Bob
you've actually deployed this system the
first question if somebody comes to me
and says this I'd say hey have you
actually deployed the system right
that's super duper useful for me right
so that's one type of application again
always pick exciting and innovative
projects the second project that I
always felt was again some professors in
some universities let you record the
audio of the lectures okay I use a lot
of my friends used to do it instead of
science and if you have a great lecturer
or a great faculty member who's audio
lectures you can record again if your
university professor says please do not
record them you can always get order of
lectures from publicly available
lectures if you go to MIT OCW I make the
OpenCourseWare there are thousands of
lectures by some of the world's best
faculty just take the audio in this and
make the audio searchable for example
imagine imagine there is a there is some
there is some there are lectures from
operating system subject right and you
should give a you should give a search
query called semaphores and this
semaphore should be searchable in the
audio of the lake
themselves right so searchable audio
lectures it's extremely useful for
students again I know that MIT and
Carnegie Mellon University have done
something like this on their university
internal lectures or lectures on OCW
this is a very exciting project today
this is this is I mean of course doing
this ten years back was very very hard
but doing it today is very very
plausible and on top of it you can
create an Alexa interface after that so
you have all of your audio lectures
right
you can now I mean first first of all
you have to create a audio you have to
convert your audio into features and
searchable features all of that stuff
and to take it to the next level you
could add an Alexa skill or a Google or
a Google assistant but you can integrate
this audio search with Alexa or Google
assistant that will make it a terrific
project imagine if you go with this
project I mean I would love to talk to
you more about how you did this right
again these are real problems that
students actually encounter I'm not
taking some rocket science problems I am
taking problems then students in
universities and colleges and college
administration themselves encounter
right very very importantly in BTech you
have during your college days you have
none of I'm at your disposal if people
give me come people sometimes others we
don't have time as BTech students come
on you're joking okay I have been
through the same cycle and even been
through a master's program I got ample
time here and during my Master's day
setting instead of science right so
please take time to collect data for
your project okay because this is
something that requires effort and time
if you can collect data say of course
one way to build an internal system is
to talk to all of your friends whoever
is interested take multiple photographs
of theirs with their permission
obviously work with the college
administration collect the data also
because many times data collection is an
often overlooked aspect of data science
problems okay so if you can collect your
own data right and build an implement
system using the data you get extra
bonus points for example I think I've
mentioned this in our previous previous
live sessions also one of our students
one of our course but
he's an experienced person he took the
self-driving car case study that we have
as part of our course videos he
implemented it on Indian roads by taking
a smartphone recording the videos using
his car so he actually collected actual
data from Indian roads applied
convolutional neural networks and LSD
aims to build a self-driving car like
system for Indian roads right and I mean
yes I've discussed extensively with him
because we mentored him and he is a
brilliant student okay
so all of the interviews that he
attended 90% of the discussion was on
this project only again this is an
experienced person okay this is not a
fresher but even a fresher can do this
you have ample time folks
as a college student you have more time
than anything else what you may not have
is financial resources right to invest
like thousands or even lakhs of rupees
on things but this is something that you
can do with your smartphone I'm assuming
most of you have a decent or even an
entry-level smartphone so try to spend
time collecting data for your projects
because you get bonus points for that
okay so this is one project that if we
take stupid candle today it's not rocket
science
right so let me walk you through some
more examples right so again as a
fresher you don't know which role you
will go on into you don't know what
career you will go into right so try and
have lot of variability or variance in
the projects that you do do one project
around computer vision do one project
around text do one project around a
builder data do one project using audio
because you don't know which type of
country you would end up after your
bachelor's or after your master's right
so having done multiple projects in
multiple domains is certainly beneficial
because you don't have your own personal
domain of expertise right so again let
me show some more projects that you
could do right so examination in which
the nation using a webcam right imagine
again examination in which the
invigilator or proctoring as it is
called in some some countries is
something that every college has to do
right imagine imagine you are a bunch of
students sitting imagine if you can
place a webcam or a smartphone in in the
examination
which tracks the whole thing and any
anomalous behavior or any cheating if it
can trigger automatically that's a
terrific thing that colleges want to
invest in right and this is a simple
thing that you can work with a college
administration and get things done right
and all it needs is a simple webcam or a
smart phone that's all again this is a
more interesting project as a student I
mean there are some universities again
I'm not saying all universities there
are some universities where there is
repetition of questions hereafter here
so can you take all the last 10 year
questions from question papers and
predict which question has the highest
likelihood to reappear in the current
year this is extremely useful your
friends will thank you will love you
will will appreciate your work can you
build a simple statistical model which
takes the last 10 years of question
papers and predict which question has
the highest probability of reoccurring
this is a problem that students would
love again this only will work if
questions reappear there are some
universities which try to give always
new questions for such a system this
won't work right so similarly there are
another very interesting project that I
always wanted to do was for a given
subject you would have different
textbooks you can get a copies of your
textbooks also suppose imagine you take
three textbooks it's a textbook one
textbook two textbook three can you
group right so for example there is one
paragraph here let's say humans talking
about it's talking about some concept
like finite state automata okay or it's
talking about some it's about some
concept can you figure out the same
concept in other textbooks and group all
of them so that instead of reading three
textbooks a person can read these three
these three paragraphs of these three
pages from three different textbook
simultaneously because you have grouped
your good group relevant subtopics from
different text books this is a text
problem right very useful problem as a
student right so especially students who
want to refer to multiple text because
this is a great source again the way the
way again I again I have been a student
myself so these are problems that I
always wanted to solve right so again my
BTech project for those of you who were
keen on it was this was this was almost
in 2007
when I graduated from BTech my BTech
project was very interesting my BTech
project was based on a very simple
neural network again I didn't know how
neural networks work then this is in
2007 when machine learning was unheard
of by many people so I took a laser
light again we used to have these laser
pointers in those days and we could get
it for like 100 200 rupees so I would I
would throw a laser pointer and they
would make a gesture so I had VLC
playing on my Linux box so if I if I
moved my laser if I moved my laser
pointer like this right on a wall and
this was captured by a webcam a webcam
would automatically detect if if I if I
drew an arrow which is right which is
which is moving right or which is left
or I could draw any shape I could draw
any shape using the laser beam that was
detected by my webcam and it would take
an action for example I connected this
to VLC player so whenever I drew this
using my using map using my pointer my
camera would recognize it and it would
take you to the next song this would
take you to the previous song if I did
this it would increase the volume if I
did this so this is basically simple
gesture recognition using webcams and
instead of using my hands I use the
laser pointer because it was easier to
do in BTech ok very simple computer
vision neural network problem this was
my BTech final layer project again not
rocket science but it was very
innovative right at least I felt it was
innovative in 2007 but I don't feel it
very innovative because in the last 12
years your networks and deep learning
and computer vision has become so
advanced that you can you can build
something like this in literally 20
lines of code ok in 2007 we didn't have
any libraries I built everything from
scratch right and I think if I recall I
wrote it in C++ and if it sounds good so
let's move on from freshers - ok so
let's move on from freshers - sorry ok
just a second
okay so the next role that I will cover
about is software engineers right so we
did we did talk about freshers and then
now let's move on to software engineers
so for software engineers again software
has come in all shapes and sizes it's a
most misused title I think along with
the data scientists okay
I've seen people who write like who
can't even write code who call
themselves software engineers right but
I am assuming here that software
engineers work in various domains you
could be software engineer working with
the healthcare plant or with a pharma
coin or a pharma company or banking and
financial services or e-commerce or
manufacturing depends on your domain
again if you're a software engineer you
could be software engineer writing code
in C C++ Java you name it right you
could be you could be writing code in
any of these languages my recommendation
for you is to learn Python and if
possible are also if need be but
certainly Python because python has the
best libraries for machine learning deep
learning and all of these things if
you're already a Python developer that's
good you don't have to worry about it
and again as I mentioned even in the
previous live session always find a
problem that is relevant to your role to
your team to your organization company
or client please again I am repeating
this please do not solve some generic
stuff please do not sound generate stuff
okay there is no use in it okay always
try to find a project suppose if your
domain is healthcare within healthcare
what is your sub domain right and
anything that you build is it something
that you can talk to your team and get
it into production is it something that
your client would like is it something
that your company would like right so
these are the types of problems again
you have to put your thinking hats here
okay there is there is no shortcut here
and I mean because we have thousands of
students who worked in different areas
of healthcare different areas of pharma
where I don't even know some of the
terminology right I'm getting the
general guidelines I also guide you
through general projects in a while but
let's look at the let's look at the
guidelines first okay
always pick projects where you can
obtain data either you
within your team or company or
externally if you don't have data there
is no machine learning it's a joke right
so any project that you pick always
first give preference to internal data
talk to your manager talk to your senior
manager web director and say here is a
problem that I think can help our team
or organization and can you give me
access to the internal data this is a
project that I want to do in addition to
my day-to-day duties ok I am sure 90% of
managers or senior managers and
directors will be more than happy if you
say this is a project that I think has
value of course you do convince them
that there is value it's always good to
do internal projects and external but
for some reason if you don't get access
to internal data external is the second
best option again when anybody is
looking at your project ok as it has an
interviewer if you come if you say ok I
have done these three projects or four
projects there are three major factors
on which I will evaluate you first and
foremost is the project innovative and
relevant ok if it is not innovative and
irrelevant I might as well say ok this
game did some gendering stuff he
probably I don't even trust that you
have done it yourself because there are
thousands of code bases publicly
available probably you just picked up
one of them and you changed it slightly
and you got me this this is waste of my
time to even focus on this in the
interview ok so you have to pick up
innovative and relevant relevant to your
domain of expertise ok if it's not
innovative nobody will look at I gave
you some simple examples of innovative
projects for freshers and students right
so think innovation is the key so if you
don't pick up innovative project and do
everything else most likely it's it's
not cool ok again you have to capture
the attention of the interviewer with
the quality and the innovation that you
have done in your project so that they
focus most of the interview on this and
you get lots of lots of advantages
because of this they would focus mostly
on your project and you know your
project better than anybody else in the
world right so you can actually crack
that interview very easily the second
most important thing is how rigorously
you are solving and how thoroughly
you're solving it you have to you cannot
say ok I'll just apply one algorithm and
I'm done sorry that's not you will do
everything from data cleaning
data pre-processing modeling using
different models thinking about what is
the business metric all of that up to
production ization because remember
you're a software engineer you better
know how to productionize things
otherwise you're telling if you don't
defeat if you don't focus if you skip
any of them if you are not turn off with
all the components of any designs
lifecycle you're not doing a good job
you're not again doing something that is
relevant to your role as a software
engineer okay this is SuperDuper
important and rigor is also important
because instead of taking sites you
employ multiple machine learning models
all of that stuff and you also thorough
with your whole whole sequence of steps
again we have discussed this in some of
the previous life sessions in our own
course video on YouTube itself so please
go through them if you want to know what
is the data science lifecycle how to
actually build projects and things like
that
I'll not be covering how to do these
projects because I have covered that in
a previous life sessions the third most
important thing nobody will have touched
that you have done all of this if you
don't show them documentation and code
again if it is an internal project you
may not be able to share that code
that's perfectly alright but you have to
convince the interviewer that you've
actually done it
which means you should actually do it
number one that's important and try to
give all the details which you can give
okay see this documentation can come
from blogs which we which we asked all
of our students to write because I'm
good to detail the blog I've shown you
some really good examples of blogs in
the previous live session that we've
done so innovation and relevance of the
project the thoroughness and the rigor
with which you do the project and
documentation and code this is to prove
that you have actually done it this
shows that you can think very creatively
and solve good problems and this is
surely showcasing your machine learning
skills all three of them are important
you can't skip any one of them and
expect good results
okay so again there are as a software
engineer as a software engineer you can
do domain dependent projects and domain
independent projects okay since there
are so many - I will cover some of the
projects from these domains also but let
me cover some domain independent and
workplace related projects these are
projects that I wanted to solve as an
employee myself at any company I will
tell you these are general problems that
any working
we can solve not necessarily software
engineers remember we all go into
minutes we all we all go to meetings
right whether you are a tech lead
whether you're manager whether you are a
software engineer we all do tons of
meetings every day right at the end of
the meeting it's a very nice habit to
write the summary of the minute summary
of the meeting all the minutes of the
meeting right where you listed on
everything that has been discussed in
the meeting itself so one very
interesting technology that is being
built at companies like companies like
Microsoft is they're trying to record
the whole meeting itself using audio
devices like think of audio devices like
Alexa or Google Google or the google
smart home or even your smartphone for
read about Alexa even using your simple
smart phone with permission from
everybody imagine if you can record the
minutes of the meeting and make the
whole meeting searchable with audio I
mean this is an imagined of course this
is not easy this is a project work that
is being done at Microsoft by by
Microsoft Research but even if you can
build a proof of concept for this you
know people are not asking you to build
a state-of-the-art solution this is a
very this is a problem that every
employee every management every manager
every program manager every product
manager faces they have again I have
been I have done probably hundreds or
even thousands of meetings myself in my
professional career and the biggest
challenge for me is after the meeting is
over I spent 10 15 minutes listening
down the summary of everything and send
an email to everybody so that everybody
knows what we have agreed upon so then I
have actual record of what we have
discussed so imagine if somebody could
create minutes of the meeting or the
summary of the meeting by listening to
the audio and making this whole audio
searchable this is possible today with
state-of-the-art and deep learning right
another very interesting application in
the workplace is a meeting scheduled
again many of you may have encountered
this especially managers team leads and
program managers product managers you
get an email from from a colleague let's
say colleague one sentient email says I
want to set up a meeting at 10:00 a.m.
right and you say sorry 10:00 a.m. I'm
busy
can we should we should unit at a
different time I am working on something
so there is a lot of back and forth back
and forth that happens over meetings
okay that's why most senior MA most
senior managers directors vice
presidents have something called as
executive assistants okay these are
actual people who help manage your
manage these senior senior members like
vice presidents directors even see the
managers in some companies with
arranging all the meetings so that they
don't waste time so there is a company
called X dot AI right which actually
tries to automate meeting schedulers by
looking at it it's like a smart
assistant okay which looks at your email
and tries to work with the other person
on the best time that works for both of
you so you can look at X dot AI and how
it works this is a very nice start-up
out of Boston which is trying to
simplify meeting scheduling which takes
again some of you may may may not know
this I have spent like there are some
instances where I've spent 80% of my day
in meetings okay and I have done
meetings across the world in different
time zones it can be a nightmare okay so
meeting scheduler is a very very
important important workplace tool this
is a workplace to remember that these
are these are anybody who is working can
you can build these tools and use these
tools
so if meeting scheduler is a very
interesting again you don't have to
build a whole product the same way X
noting here has built but even if you
can build a proof of concepts it's very
good again a great place for good
innovative ideas for projects in
startups because the startup like X
naught is solving the real world really
important problem right I not devoted
because one of my friends works at this
one of the people that I mentor not a
friend exactly somebody that I'm entered
volts at X not a high right and he
talked about how they work and I said
wow this is super ingenious and super
interesting project to work on right so
always look at interesting startups in
your domains to see what they're working
on that's a great place for good ideas
okay another very interesting project
that I always wanted to work on
especially if you are working close to
HR teams or anything like that can you
predict the performance rating around of
an
employee using the data that is already
available as a HR person right imagine
imagine as I as a company you can read
all the emails you can look at all the
code you can look at all the calendar of
a given employee because this is all
company property right by using all this
data that a company already has a modern
employee can you predict can you predict
the performance rating or the annual
performance rating of the person himself
can you do that this is a project that
people at HR love to work on again
Google itself so Google HR is very very
data and analytics driven so Google HR
doesn't do this performance rating using
using emails etc but they look at a lot
of data about employees to see what
factors actually enable employees to
remember to the work or to continuously
work at Google for a longer period of
time how do you reduce attrition how do
you improve performance of employees
right that that type of so Google's HR
team has a data analysis wing itself I
have a friend from an instable scientist
who works in the team as a data
scientist very ingenious work that they
do you can read up about it some of this
data is publicly available the work that
Google HR does on data analysis is
publicly available right similarly
imagine you guys might that might be
sitting on large amounts of code
repositories documentation internal
wikis all of this stuff many of these
stuff might have a very simple search
engine many of these things may have a
very very simple search engine for
example if you look at Wikipedia search
engine it's it sucks to be honest I
don't such I do I don't remember
searching on Wikipedia using Wikipedia
search I always search on Google so can
you improve the search search facility
that you have on your internal software
like your code documentation wikis etc
this is a very very interesting
application where companies like
Microsoft and IBM write and even Google
was working in this space for a while
but their lot of large companies which
want to get into this space because
there is so much of it'll organize the
data in large companies magnificant
build a system build a better search for
your core documentation and wiki's in
your own company
I mean company would love you for that
right similarly there is a very
interesting case study and you can get
all the data this is a this is a this is
a problem that Amazon put out on Kaggle
right as a as a as a as a computational
problem okay and whoever won this
competition got interviewed Amazon and
all of that stuff this is a but when a
new employee joins what all access to
what all stuff does he get access today
what happens is when a new employee
joins he has to talk to his manager his
manager now talks to other teams and
gets him access to some database gets
him access to some computers all of them
stuff now can you automate some of the
part because managers really don't like
to do that okay this is an employee this
is a manager it's a big waste of
manager's time can you automate some of
that access granting for a new employee
again if you want data this data is
available on Amazon sorry on title
itself because there is a very nice data
set that Amazon created for a
competition sick this is something that
your IT department within the company
would love to work on right again these
are problems that you're solving for not
your team but your company similarly can
you automatically rate goal quality okay
this is a very interesting project
imagine if you're a developer and let's
say home can you look at Java code that
anyone writes a java class or just a
Java function or a Chava module whatever
it is can you automatically rate the
quality of cool that you have okay I
actually had companies like Google
Amazon etc if you when you submit your
code suppose I write a Java class and I
submitted it goes through a bunch of
checks okay some bunch of basic quality
checks right and it will only be pushed
into our internal grid only if the code
quality is up to the standard for
example imagine if somebody did not
write enough comments okay so can you
somehow create a code quality rater
where in your data set is very simple
you look at all the code which is in
your internal repository or which is on
github which is of high quality and low
quality that's it it's a simple binary
classification task so this can improve
again if you can build a code
rating system it can improve the overall
code quality that your whole company is
working on so this is a very interesting
project again this this type of projects
are already done at some of the world's
best engineering companies like Google
Amazon etc another problem that I always
faced was we all write notes on
whiteboard right when we're discussing
in meetings we write it on whiteboards
then we take a picture we send the
picture to everyone can I make can I
somehow have take a picture of the
whiteboard send it to some internal
server which makes the whole thing
searchable I struggled through this
problem because I would be in tons of
discussions with folks I would draw the
whiteboards and take pictures share it
with people but then I have let if I
look at my smartphone I have hundreds of
these by put pictures and if I want to
search them I can't search them right
can you make whiteboard to digital or
whiteboard pictures that you take can
you make this picture searchable if I
say if I say something like okay AI
course okay can it search wherever I
mentioned a course right so that that
would be good
similarly this is this is an another
slightly off swinger for example imagine
during in the corridors right in the
corridors of your company where you
already have security cameras right
again not not probably where you're
sitting there are some places where
security cameras are already there can
you look at the security camera field
and measure how stressed out implies on
or how happy employees are by just
looking at their facial expressions
based just by looking at the body
language right so this is something that
HR folks will be very happy to work on
right can you measure the stress or
image can you measure the happiness of
your employees using the camera feed
from the publically placed cameras in
your company right similarly most
companies have cafeteria IT services all
these places right which you use every
day and they may not be a clean feedback
system to give feedback on your
cafeteria food you might have to write
email all of that stuff
I get nobody wants to take time to write
email all of that stuff imagine if I
just place a small microphone or a small
small smartphone or a tablet at the
entrance or exit of cafeteria the way
you see in some airports nowadays just
click a button give an audio feedback
because giving audio feedback is much
more easy than writing and typing
something right this is a feedback
system that people in your people in a
company especially senior management
would love to hear right again these are
non domain specific projects remember
these are projects that I wanted to
solve as an employee at various
companies okay these are not at all
domain specific these are problems for
HR these are problems for various teams
within your company which would again is
a real-world problem these are not some
cooked up problems these are problems
that do matter
right so I call them domain independent
and workplace related problems right
let's take some domain-specific problems
okay again
domain specific internal data I don't
know what internal data you have at your
own company because every student or
every employee is different so I look at
some external data that is publicly
available on places like kaggle for
example let's take this right let's take
a simple example here suppose if you are
working in healthcare somebody was
asking this in the comment section right
suppose if you're going into a
healthcare right so let's go to
healthcare okay so all this such was
look at look at what I searched I
searched on Google gaggle healthcare
that's all I did nothing else okay
this gives you tons of datasets okay
this is some awful nology data this is
some cervical cancer this is a very data
science bob challenge there are tons of
breast cancer data diabetes data malaria
cell data there is tons of data I mean
there are there are look at this there
are 239 data sets related to health care
you can pick up any problem that is
relevant to your domain and solve it
again within healthcare there are
multiple parts health care insurance
like health care device manufacturing
whatever kaggle has some of the largest
repositories of world-class really good
data right again as I told you if you
have internal data try to work with
internal data that's always that should
always be your first preference if you
don't have internal data it's perfectly
okay usage see just a Google search away
similarly somebody was talking about
banking and financial services right so
if I just like Kaggle backing so all I
did was I
googled Kegel plus banking and financial
services this is all backing data real
this is from real data this is from real
companies about credit rating about
merchant category about customer
transaction prediction from real banks
this is some housing data right some
data from World Bank right there tons of
tons of real world data real world
competition there are eight competitions
here if you're working in banking why
not just solve all these problems right
again this is from the French company
BNP paribas right and this is about
claims management
I think insurance claim management right
so lots of interesting problems in
banking and finance it's just a Google
search of it similarly I just searched
goggle insurance and I got this
potential life insurance data
potential is one of the largest life
insurance corporations in the world
again basically it's all about making
life insurance purchasing easy again
whenever you are solving the problem you
get if you can if you cannot get
internal data use the external data but
do a thorough extremely thorough
solution and document your solution
that's super duper important right
similarly again I just Google such it
again
I just Google such title insurance right
here are some night mice ate problems
that you have here from credit scoring
to whether a loan will default or not
again predicting the probability of
default here likelihood of insurance
claims right which current customers
will still be at the company after six
months this is a very nice this is a
virtual prediction right so these are
all real world data with real world
challenges and instead of instead of
solving some simpler problems solve
cattle problems because they're much
more exciting again somebody was asking
about manufacturing right look at this
this is mercedes-benz greener
manufacturing this is actually
competition that Mercedes Benz created
on cackling again I'm no expert in
manufacturing but I'm sure if the prize
money is twenty five thousand dollars it
must have been a good problem right and
this is by Daimler which is the parent
company of mercedes-benz supervised
there is a there is a production line
Foreman's problem by body which is one
of the largest industrial component
manufacturers in the world
right so there is no dearth of data and
problems the best the easiest place to
find data is Google trust me it's the
easiest place and cackled has tons of
you can pick any domain or subdomain you
will find problems again to be honest
with you I am no expert in any of them
ok I've read a little bit about health
care I've read a little bit about
insurance I have read a little bit about
banking but I've never worked in these
domains if you ask me about e-commerce I
can give you a hundreds of ideas based
on problems that we solved or the teams
that I work with that I that I'm entered
that I learned under that that I learn
from right so again if you don't know
again any of these property if you're a
software engineer you can pick any of
these problems that are listed here
these are all our domain independent
problems which is still very exciting
these are domain specific problems that
you can get from title but again if you
are picking a domain specific problem
always try to get internal data if you
don't have internal data it's okay to be
an external data but please pick again I
wrote these three three measures rate
innovative and relevant rigorous and
thorough documentation with code but
those are three important factors now
imagine imagine if you if you if you're
a tester
okay let me see okay so okay okay so
okay so yeah seems okay so if you're a
tester right again testing comes in two
variations manual and automation testing
what types of projects can you work on
okay so this is again all the rules that
I mentioned in the previous rules hold
here also okay all the general
guidelines hold here these are some of
the problems again I'm no expert in
testing I have worked with testing teams
both manual and automation testing teams
at various companies including applied
AAA course and this is based on
discussions with them right
can you group similar bugs on tickets
one of the biggest jobs of manual and
automation testing folks is to have bug
tracking or ticket tracking these are
bugs that the testing folks whether
manual or automation have come across in
the file a ticket right
can you groups in
bugs by clustering by either using the
text description or by looking at the
resolution time and things like that
then can you perform some simple
statistical data analysis and takes data
analysis to understand why some tickets
are taking more time than others
again this is extremely useful feedback
to your testing manager or testing
serial manager because if you can go
back to your manager or senior manager
and say okay these are the types of
tickets that are taking extremely long
amount of time probably we should talk
to our engineering teams or development
teams and tell them to fix these
problems okay this is extremely valuable
for testing teams similarly can you
automatically find the best person or
the team to si in a decade or a bucket
instead of manually going and doing it
you're sitting again all these is
repetitive tasks all these are
repetitive tasks any repetitive tasks
where you have lot of data right and
there is where there is some human
judgment right you can automate this
very easily
similarly can you predict the time to
resolve a bug so that you have real
estimates again this is something that
both engineering managers and software
and testing managers would love to have
because if you can predict how much time
it will take a bug to to be fixed if it
is not fixed within that time you can go
back and ask your engineering folks
folks something is wrong here
we expect it to be fixed within so in
Slovene some days based on a machine
learning model okay for all of these
projects you need to have access to your
whole repository of bugs tickets when
when was a bug filed when Meserve when
was it resolved all of the data you need
to have access to I'm assuming if you're
a manual tester or an automation tester
you have access to some of this data all
right similarly if you're doing some UI
testing right this is something that
that is very interesting if you're doing
UI testing can you find again some of
the UI testing can be automated right
you basically click on a button using
some automation scripts and then the UI
changes can you find anomalies or
outliers in the UI itself this is
basically finding image outliers
right this is simply finding image
outliers can you do something like this
this is extremely useful because it can
save a lot of time for manual validation
anything that is repetitive data driven
with
intuition I get images are extremely
hard to automate using standard
automation scripts why don't you use
image out out layers using convolution
neural networks they do a pretty good
job today right so these are some of the
problems that the testing folks can do
now let me also focus on more aspects of
testing again this is something that I
really really was interested in imagine
if you're a manager of a testing team
imagine if I can have a simple audio
search of bugs again audio search is
extremely intuitive to humans one way is
I go to the bug I go to the whole
web-based interface for the whole ticket
management system I enter something and
I get it but what if I can just I can
just pick up my phone and say hey how
many bugs are not resolved right now ok
or how many bugs are expected to be
resolved in the next 24 hours or how
many bugs are delayed if you are a
manager or a senior manager or even a
lead of testing teams this is a this is
a service that you would love to have
and imagine if you can integrate it why
I Alexa Google assistant that would be
terrific even if you don't have it you
can just build a simple mobile app
wherein you just see what does it
require you take the audio you convert
it to text query you convert this text
query now into a query into this whole
system and get the results right
extremely useful and again make these
results convert this text into audio
which is simpler and read this out right
similarly you can you can do some data
visualization work on bugs okay suppose
imagine if I have 10,000 current 10,000
bugs that are currently there right I
can group bugs based on how much time
they took and based on the text that
they have and I can create nice
visualizations we talked about Disney
visualizations right again there are
some free videos on our on our YouTube
channel where we explain about what
Disney does even in our course videos
there are some free videos you can check
out data visualization using things like
Disney can help us give lots of insights
into how our data is grouped with nice
data visualization project similarly if
you are if you are an automation tester
with selenium knowledge okay actually we
have done one case study like this
wherein now again this case study is
also freely available in our course
website you can go check it out where
and we took images of I think over over
1 lakh
fashion and apparel items from Hamazon
again we used Amazon's Product Search
API for this we did not scrape it
because Amazon has very strict rules on
scraping so we used Amazon's Search API
to actually fetch this data and we we
did a case study on this we did
basically a simple fashion search engine
using this data right with actual data
from Amazon fashion or Amazon Apple
itself similarly you can scrape data
from various websites again when you're
scraping I'm sure you know about
robots.txt please do it in a legally
correct and legally appropriate manner
okay I'm sure if you're if you know
selenium you know I put robots.txt and
rules on how to scrape data in a genuine
way if you can scrape data you can get
data from any website right you can get
data from Yahoo Finance those of you
don't know Yahoo Finance's a lot of
stock market data right you can get data
from from YouTube itself right you can
get data from companies like Amazon you
can get data from any company and build
some interesting solutions around it as
a selenium developer you have you're
sitting on a extremely powerful skill to
obtain data from the internet right
again selenium is extremely easy to pick
up the basics of Selena I'm not saying
the advanced concepts in selenium are
easy but the basics of selenium are
extremely simple to pick up we did a
case study at operating codes which is
also publicly available you can check it
out on our website which which
everywhere and we just simply use
Amazon's API and build this whole case
study around it right extremely simple
again as a tester these are some very
interesting links of startups in
function eyes is a start-up which is
trying to automate test case generation
if you are doing test case generation
function is a very interesting start up
again I've also linked at some nice
projects that people have done where
that they are detecting code bugs
automatically very interesting piece of
work using deep learning right again
there is a whole there is a whole
project on github called deep bugs yet
the objective is to find bugs in code
using automation okay using machine
learning deep learning etc this is all
about generating test this is a very
interesting start up again startups are
great place to look at what interesting
projects you can do again you can go
through any of them again of course you
have to know machine learning and deep
learning to work on these projects this
is just a sample you can write it as 10
11 these are multiple projects that you
could pick up and work on if you are if
you're a manual tester or an automation
festival similarly if you are if you're
a database engineer or a database
administrator right there's some very
interesting projects that I always
wanted to build up I'll give you some
reference links also one problem that I
was very curious to work on was major
language to SQL very interesting problem
today only people who know SQL can query
the database that you are an engineer or
for a net benefit
what if people can speak in natural
language if imagine if people can say
how many suppose imagine I have some
database of let's say students ok can I
just use natural language can I say hey
how many students finished assignment 13
today ok or can I say how many queries
which we've gotten in the last one day
have been answered in under 4 hours ok
so again these are simple I don't have
to write the SQL query can I can I can I
speak or can I write in national
language can you convert it to an SQL
query and execute it so again I provided
you some very nice link here of lots of
interesting projects very nicely this is
from Stack Exchange then there's a very
nice discussion again a very nice
project that can be done here and I know
startups which are working on this area
also ok and you don't have to build a
world-class product you can start with
some simple product for your own
database as a new database engineer
eggman you already have access to the
database schemas you have you have all
the database at your disposal can you
build a natural natural natural language
interface to this that'll be terrific
even if you can do it for just one
database if not the hundreds of database
that you might be managing all right
it's a it's it's a problem that I was
very passionate to work on at some point
right I got this idea because I was fed
up because I was working with some sales
marketing folks and they are not very
conversant in SQL it was taking them a
lot of time to learn
I said come on guys we are already in
such an advanced age why can't they just
say what they want and we should get
this query for it it came out of my own
pain point that I faced when working
with others at various companies right
so the next thing is can you mind the
logs okay whether the text of the log or
the SQL queries of the queries
themselves to find inefficient queries
queries which are taking too much time
or which are which are not at all
optimal can you find inefficient queries
and to the person who has thrown this
query at your database can you suggest
similar similar queries that are that
are written much more efficiently right
so as soon as somebody submits an SQL
query to a database can you just run it
through a simple text mining or an SQL
query mining system and say this query
is going to be very very inefficient and
you can give feedback to the person who
submitted this query and saying that hey
here are other queries that are written
much more efficiently which are very
similar to yours okay this will improve
the experience of the database users and
also improve the efficiency of your
database itself similarly can you have
an end-to-end Q&A system so here this is
just about you say something you get at
in school system can you have a chat bot
so by by Q&A system I mean can you have
a chat bot complete chat bot end-to-end
Q&A system like a chat bot on your
relational or non-relational data you
could have non-relational data like text
data stored in storing columnar stores
or text databases etc right so this is
this is this is a subset of this problem
right as a database Internet of a
segment this problem is golden trust me
this problem is golden this problem is
again these are problems that I faced
when I was using databases when I was
interacting with amazing units and
database edmonds similarly now let's
talk about web developers I have
developers write again I am just giving
you a flavor of some of these problems
if you're a front-end developer right
come on you should be able to learn
selenium in no time selenium along with
JavaScript CSS you can do it for
scraping the projects that I talked
about for for automation testing folks
you can do all of them and better still
this is very important whatever solution
you build
real-world web app to showcase your
results if you're a member vellu / you
can use tensorflow to jas there lot of
nice ingenious you can just Google such
tensorflow J's projects you get tons of
beautiful projects similarly if you're
an app developer whatever you are
building try to publish an app using
that so tensorflow you can write yeah
you can you get an execute tensorflow
code again for those of you don't know
tensorflow is one of the best and the
most advanced deep learning deep
learning frameworks and deep learning
the system of deep learning modules
built by Google right so you can run
tensorflow code on hundred or iOS if
you're a web developer an app developer
please put out your system run a web app
or a mobile app when you can showcase
your research some simple stuff that I
am come to write can you crack CAPTCHAs
right of course today with advances in
combination your own networks and other
stuff
there are CAPTCHA crackers as a web
developer can you crack the CAPTCHAs
using concepts from deep learning
especially convolution neural networks
and anything that you build please build
a web app or a mobile app using
tensorflow JS or tensorflow Frank Lloyd
Wright some simple examples these are
not some rocket science examples ok some
more projects write some more
interesting projects so on webpages as a
front-end developer one of the big
problems is UI UX problems can you
compute something called as very time
many time basically means imagine this
is my webpage how much time is a user
spending on this part of the page how
much time is a user spending on this
part of the page how much time is a user
spending on this page or this part of
the page right so can you track all of
this behavior obtain the data and create
nice visualizations and also figure out
the block points for example probably
the person the the user is searching for
something and he's not able to find that
feature
he'll keep again if you look at the data
analysis this is a pure data analysis
and data visualization work ok this is
very very relevant for front-end
developers because you guys know already
JavaScript CSS acts all of this stuff
right right so using the tools that you
already have at your disposal you can
build nice way there are startups which
do it
there are startups which do it to be
honest okay you can build a system like
this and if you know JavaScript if you
are a good front end or the perdition
take a lot of time similarly this is a
problem that we we worked on and we
built which is for for many of our
course registered students we conduct
self-assessment tests wherein we record
the screen with their permission
obviously we record the screen of the
desk taker and we also record with their
webcam but we also want to automate this
whole invitation part because we don't
have we don't have enough manpower to
sit here manually so we are doing
automated invitation or proctoring when
we conduct these assessment tests for
our students this automated proctoring
what it does is very interesting through
the webcam it looks at the it looks at
the person's face and if there is any
anomalous behavior imagine if he is
looking si in our face looking at
somebody for some help any anomalous
behavior will trigger and it let us know
that there is some problem here where we
manually interfere this is an actual
problem somebody was asking about
problems in education right this is a
very very important problem in education
can you automatically perform invitation
just using a webcam and yours and your
again we use both webcam and the
microphone right so this is a simple
system that we built part of it part of
it using tensorflow js part of it on the
server side right so we continuously
monitor through the webcam and the
screen recording on what this person
what is a what this test taker is doing
if you find any anomalous behavior any
any suspicious behavior we simply inform
the manual prompter asking them to look
at it and if there is a suspicious
behavior we either talk to the candidate
or we invalidate the whole exam
similarly there are lot of online games
can you build some systems to auto to
play these games automatically simple
games like Mario and others right
nothing very fancy again I've never
played much games so I'm no expert in
this another very interesting tool that
you guys could build especially the web
developers and even mobile developers is
interactive machine learning tools and
algorithms you can go to this page
called distilled or pub again this is a
this is a very nice block that is
with contributions from Google and some
of the best companies in the world so
you can you can read up about this again
this is something that we use as part of
our course to showcase how TC works
there's an old blog that that we used
right again here you can see the whole
Disney itself implemented on a small
data set with all cases with an
interactive machine learning all the
whole Disney algorithm itself is
implemented using a machine using an
interactive machine learning tool
web-based or mobile based thing you can
were to distill it up and see lots of
such nice machine learning tools on the
web itself they're terrific they're so
beautiful
alright again these are projects that
web developers and mobile developers can
look at similarly look at my again I am
no mechanical engineer my knowledge of
mechanical engineering is very basic but
here is one thing that I'm entered one
of the startups right this is called
condition based monitoring also called
predictive maintenance right so the
startup that I worked with again there
is a lot of data sets again there is
data set on machine failure prediction
that I am linked here again my knowledge
of mechanical engineering is very
limited but the problem that I'm entered
on was that the start of it I was
working with had lot of accelerometer
data they also collected some ultrasound
data and visual data so using all of
these three things can you now predict
when will the machine fail okay that's
what is called predictive maintenance or
when when would we need to change the
oil in the in the in the in a in the
bearings bearing failure is one of the
most common failures right can you can
you predict when the bearings will fail
right the or can you can you this whole
area is called predictive maintenance
and I have provided some links to you
here right so where you can get datasets
for this again I'm no expert in
mechanical engineering so whatever I'm
telling you here is very very limited
but there's a lot of nice academic
research right if you go to this is from
Carnegie Mellon in the mechanical
engineering department they have a whole
sample area where they're working on
mechanical engineer they're working on
problems and intersection of mud
mechanical engineering and machine
learning this is everything from
from again let's go to the site and see
this right again
this is one place where I learned about
some exciting work that's being done
today so let's let's go here just a
second it's taking a while to load this
is CMU right yeah
should have been fast okay yeah it's
loaded
so mechanical engineering research
machine learning right so they're
working on problems around human health
and you can read lots of very
interesting research papers data sets
all of these things from here
right so similarly autonomous vehicles
of course you guys you guys know a lot
about the mechanical engineering behind
vehicles right of course and if you can
learn if you can apply some of the
machine learning deep learning
techniques you can certainly work on
these problems some material discovery I
don't know any anything about these
topics okay but there is lot of research
design and manufacturing work again
I showed you some I showed you some work
here right from Bosch and where is this
okay I showed you some work from
mercedes-benz and Bosch right these are
also problems around mechanical
engineering and manufacturing that you
could talk that you could work on again
please understand that my knowledge of
mechanical engineering is limited that's
a little too deep into it but for any
domain whatever your domain is a Google
search is extremely useful to find some
exciting work most importantly look for
startups why not just look for startups
there are tons of very exciting and
interesting startups right so why don't
we just look at these startups and and
look at look at some interesting stuff
around them right so so that that's what
I would recommend again sorry for taking
slightly longer than what I expected
but I can spend the next 10 15 minutes
10 15 minutes answering your questions
okay I am back here I am looking at the
chat window I'll try to answer a few
questions okay where are we okay
somebody is asking about farming yeah
yes again Google search smart farming
right oh there are a lot of companies in
the intersection of robotics and farming
especially in the US where the cost of
labor is high where they want to cut
these or pluck these things
automatically that's one very
interesting project but for that you
need to be an expert in mechanical
engineering robotics and machine
learning not just machine learning right
similarly there is a lot of work again
you can just google search for it again
let me show you this somebody asked
about farming right so for example let
me type kaggle farming okay okay so okay
then then again agriculture farming or
agriculture so there also a lot of a lot
of very interesting work on plant ok so
look at look at these datasets is there
some competitions ok let me look at some
code so I remember some competition soil
soil African soil challenge yes
ok so this is a nice problem ok I
remember reading about it at some point
so this is about predict physical and
chemical properties of soil using
spectral measurements this is a problem
around education is a problem around
soil management and irrigation and
agriculture right so of course kaggle
has lots of this very very interesting
data sets that you can pick up from
again I'm no expert in agriculture or
farming or any of these things but I'm
sure you can get this stuff right so any
good websites to get machine learning
code for references for beginners I mean
kaggle has lot of kernels you can read
up about it
I love cable for that cackled is now
owned by Google anyway so yeah Kaggle is
one one very interesting source the
other thing is github just Google search
ok Google Search github you'll get tons
of stuff somebody's saying if it another
banking data is not easily available I
gave you so many external references
right I showed you a while ago during
the during the live session that even
just Google Search Kaggle banking there
are tons of banks which have put out
some relevant data where you can work on
it right so if internal data is not
available you can certainly work on
external data not a problem so somebody
is talking about should projects be
different for managers and senior
managers certainly there is a live
session that we did just before this I
think about three weeks or four weeks
back where I talked about with
experience how the project should change
the topic could be the same thing but
their rigor with which you solve a
problem the business acumen that you use
the map the the mathematical rigor and
also the the engineering rigor that you
solve the problem if you are if you are
a senior manager let's say all right I
expect you or a manager for that matter
or somebody with five or ten years
experience I expect you to solve the
problem end-to-end using all the proper
design patterns of engineering I would
expect you to actually solve it at scale
if you have some experience in databases
or data or data warehousing right I mean
the eggs the for the same problem for
somebody with two years experience we
are okay if it does a decent solution a
rigorous in to end decently production
is a full solution when I have somebody
with five years or even ten years
experience I also want to look at the
design part of the high-level design the
low-level design
those are stuff that I also want to see
because that person already should know
all of this by default right so there
the the depth and and the and the rigor
of the project itself changes
dramatically as you become more and more
senior again we have got a live session
in mother I think the previous live
session itself we have discussed about
it and please go through that that will
be extremely useful because we covered
it for somebody with zero years two
years five years 10 years 15 years etc
okay
okay sounds good for digital marketing
again don't worry about digit there are
tons of again gaggle let's say click
prediction click prediction is one of
the most important things in digital
marketing right because most of these
are cost per click models right so
they're tons of data sets available on
cable itself right again we have done
one of these we have taken one of these
and then a case study as part of the
core cell also right so tons of stuff
available there not a problem somebody
is asking how to make a chatbot we did a
live session on that so you can check it
out okay sounds good any use cases at
the mainframe domain again I am NOT an
expert in mainframes my knowledge of IBM
370 or even mainframes is very very
limited I have read about some of the
architectural designs that IBM did stuff
like that but if you're a mainframe
designer I'm a I'm a showing you're very
good with scripting right so pick up
some problem I don't mean frames again I
don't I've never used a mainframe in my
life I've read about it from a
theoretical viewpoint but never used it
so I may not be the right person to
guide you on that but the core objective
is this if there is any problem where
you have data where you have a
repetitive task with some human
intuition to make a decision we're doing
it as tedious and time-consuming right
any tasks like that you should be able
to apply some machine learning to
improve the system that's the goal there
right so somebody's saying apart from
machine learning should we need to learn
app development web development etc see
if if you're not a temp developer or an
app developer don't worry about it
but just document your solution put all
of your code in github right if you're a
student right if you have PI matters at
your disposal why not learn it it's so
easy doing web development and app
development is so easy to be honest with
you
right it's extremely easy I mean you can
pick it up very easily if you know basic
programming thinking of web development
or app development
very hard you can go with the flow
actually that's how I learnt app
development
I was actually developing an app and I
learned after at a special Android
development as I developed that okay
because my foundational concept of
computer science is strong right my
knowledge of programming is decent
I understand how programming languages
classes all these concepts work so if
you're a student especially in 30 out of
5 year if you have time please learn it
it's a good skill to have in the long
run so middle very sad mrs. like sapa
etcetera again look at it like this
right even if for a middleware service
everything that I mentioned for
databases is relevant to you because
your middle then again I'm no expert
here from what I understand your
middleware is trying to connect two
pieces of software right using some
intermediate code that's what it's
trying to do effectively that's what it
is trying to do right now if you are
working with a data which is there in
SATs HANA or any other data store can
you build some machine learning model on
the data that you have access to that's
the simplest question to ask right so
again I'm no X never used s AP in my
life so I'm no expert at it but I can
give a general guidelines on how to
think about it even the topics that I
listed are topics where I have worked on
what I have thought about or have read
about extensively again you can say
things like this s AP machine learning
look at what I say P is doing in machine
learning right so let's look at this
okay so let me let me do it for you okay
I say P machine learning I don't know
what I say P is doing in machine
learning
oh I say oh I've heard about this AP has
this platform called Leonardo
what does Leonardo do I've heard about
this Leonardo software
look at this si P is trying to do
intelligent RPN a safe is also doing
conversational a conversation ai
using the data that they have in their
own I say P systems why not learn about
if you already know is AP and if you
know some basic machine learning why not
learn a saying period not oh this is a
terrific tool why not right I'm sure so
I'm sure these guys I'm sure I say we
could have terrific researchers working
on these problems
learn about this conversational EAS
system and intelligent rpm and of course
if you know much
you will have much more deeper
understanding of how these things are
working you can build some of these
systems probably if you when you learn
about it why don't you build a simple
conversation area system on the SAE
platform data that you have again again
I don't know is AP internally in too
much detail to be able to comment on it
but just a Google search a way most of
these things are mostly a Google search
MA from discovering what these companies
are doing there is a there is a Emmure
what is this company this company that
does customer CRM Salesforce right
Salesforce has this terrific thing
called Einstein right which is the built
on their on their Salesforce system the
the customer relationship management
system it's beautiful right again you
can read up if you're working on sales
phone you can you say this what you can
read up of dine stein how Einstein works
and try to build us simpler version of
Einstein as a as a simple prototype or
proof of concept why not write of course
you may not be able to build to the
quality at Einstein is built because
remember a simply as a company is
building for every client that sorry a
sales force as a company is building for
every client that they have they want to
build generate systems but you can build
a specific system for your client or for
your company okay on salesforce is AP or
any of these systems right sounds good
Oh risk in finance so any projects are
on risk in finance trading route I mean
come on again you can get some nice data
sets and nice problems on cable itself
just type cable stock prediction you get
data sets from 2 Sigma you get data sets
from from some of the best edge funds or
quantitative hedge funds in the world
you can certainly do that right kaggle
is a great source google search is a
better source anyway okay sounds good
folks are I'm sorry I couldn't answer
some of your questions
especially around mainframes because I
don't know much about it to be honest
with you I hope this today's session
would help you get some idea on what to
do next
please remember not to do generic stuff
ok please try not to do generic stuff
for any domain that you want to work on
just Google search that with cable or
that with datasets that with deep
learning suppose if I want to do let's
say cyber security somebody's asking
about the question cyber security deep
learning Kaggle you'll get datasets
you'll see what problems companies are
working on I will say cyber security
machine learning startups
you'll get you get very interesting
startups especially in Israel that work
on cybersecurity stuff right so these
are these are again I'm no expert in
cyber security to be again very honest
with you I have never worked on
cybersecurity but if you have good
foundational machine learning knowledge
and if you have some domain knowledge
I'm sure you can build good solutions
around it right
I hope this session was informative and
hope some of you will end up doing some
innovative projects if you do an
innovative project feel free to send us
send send send the detailed description
documentation your blog anything to team
deployed any course we would love to see
it read it and hopefully learn of learn
a few things from it and if it's very
good we would cover it in one of our
life sessions so the other people also
can benefit from it ok thank you folks
I'm sorry I've eaten slightly more time
than the 60 minute that we thought of
but have a good day have a good weekend
thank you for joining one seconds
