hi folks our our very good morning and I
came a little early just so that I can
check the microphone and I can see if
there is any issue with the live stream
before we jump in I'll also keep my eyes
open on the on the live chat so we could
chat for a few minutes and I plan it to
start at 10:05 which is five minutes
past 10:00 a.m. sharp so till then let's
wait for everyone to jump into the
discussion and I'll spend some time on
the live chat here and I'll try to
answer as many questions as I can before
we jump in okay so if you have any
issues do let me know on the live chat
with the audio quality or with the video
stream things look fairly good to me as
I see it yeah I can see myself clearly I
can also hear myself fairly clearly so
no major issues for me there
hey good morning folks thanks for
joining in can everybody confirm if the
stream is okay if everything is good
because I can hear myself I can see
myself clearly even on my 4G connection
hey morning folks thanks for joining in
a little early so let's wait for
everyone to join in they're already a
bunch of you have already joined in so
let's wait for everyone because I'll it
come little early often to these
discussions to ensure that there is no
issues with the stream itself ok good
good good no issues perfect good audio
and video so Amin asks a very good
question how to keep consistency in
learning very very important
consistencies I think one of the hardest
things even for me today like how do I
consistently wake up every morning and
do these videos or answer these
questions or take mock interviews design
interview questions how do I do it so
one one strategy that has worked very
well for me in my own professional
experience and even in a personal
experiences I try to set a schedule so
often times I wake up before 4:30 a.m.
between 4:00 and 4:30
depends on how cranky my son was the
before night but I try to wake up by
4:30
Tippett sometimes even at 4:00 if I have
a good night's sleep and I try to sit at
my desk by 5:00 a.m. with a cup of tea
so or a cup of coffee I try to sit at my
desk and I don't check my email I don't
check my whatsapp I don't check anything
that is distracting I sit down by the
time for the first three to four hours
of the day I try to get the most
important things done because that way
and starting my day with a very
productive piece of work I try to get my
work done all the critical most
important work some of you may have
noticed this I actually record a lot of
videos early in the morning because my
mind is fresh and fully focused and by
the time it is 10 or 11 I try to get a
good chunk of my work if not all of the
milk it's almost impossible to get all
of my work done in five six hours
but I get at least start my day well and
that keeps the motivation levels high
so imagine from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
I've written the notes accurately I've
recorded a few videos I've answered a
few e I've answered a few queries that
students have and I've prepared for the
mock interviews I'm going to conduct
through the day right then see I should
yield my time and that has helped me
immensely because now I have a perfect
shade I say at this time I'm taking
for not break it's very very hard to
stick to that schedule you have to
discipline yourself you have to tell
yourself that today so another thing
that has worked very well for me is I
write a note on my laptop and I say from
5 a.m. or 4 4:30 a.m. to 6:30 and 90
minutes how much work have I gotten done
I try to review that work at the end of
the day there by seeing how well did I
work today and I rate myself on day to
day basis this is what I used to do a
little earlier now I don't do it because
I have become fairly disciplined over
the years but even nowadays whenever I'm
whenever I think I'm not getting enough
work done I try just write down every
day I ask myself I haven't done a good
job today so next day I say ok tomorrow
I'm gonna do a better job than yesterday
so it is basically a data-driven
tracking of how well I am doing on a
consistent basis I think that's one of
the strategies that is work well not
just a deployed area course but even
when I was at Amazon or prior to that
schedule you will share you should do
try to again discipline is super
important thankfully isolate in a
military school in the rhythm for five
years I've not thought of stuff from
there or how to be discipline but it's
about fixing a schedule and getting work
done that's very very important ok
sounds good
so how to manage office work and studies
again schedule I'm sure you're not going
to work from 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. on
your office work so spend those first
three hours of the day studying learning
right then you can prepare get ready for
your office head to office anyway in
India most people go to office around 10
a.m. so wake up early get your work done
early and cut down on your social media
cut down on your television it's I mean
I don't agree with people who say I
don't have enough time in my life
if the presidents and prime ministers of
countries can accommodate time in their
schedules why not us right so I think we
can surely make up or utilize or
optimize our time right so somebody is
asking about other live videos so all
the general lives that we have done are
available on YouTube itself just go
through our channel you'll see all the
past lives if you're a registered
student all the lives that
on weekly basis you'll find them only on
the desktop app only for registered
students okay sounds good
so okay sounds good so it's it's almost
10:00 a.m. so let's wait for 5 more
minutes folks because I see a lot of
people jumping and I'm just seeing the
track here we'll start the actual
session itself at 10:05 okay that's what
I mentioned a while ago also in 6
minutes we'll start with the actual
session itself in the meantime I'll
answer a few questions ok so good good
we shall a very good question that you
asked you find difficulty in connecting
concepts that's very very interesting
because this is a problem I'm very bad
at remembering things like I do I'm very
bad at remembering names right I'm very
bad at remembering formulae so one
strategy that I do here is imagine I'm
learning two concepts let's take a
simple example right let's say let's say
linear regression and and a deep
learning model right I try to first draw
everything because I have have a better
visual memory than audio memory again
different people have different types of
memory I am very good with visual stuff
I can remember diagrams most humans have
a good visual memory right so I try to
draw diagrams and whenever I see an
equation I try to break it down and I
say what happens if I change this that
that's the strategy that I've even
employed while teaching the course
itself right so I try to break down the
concept and I say what happens if this
changes and let's assume you take two
concepts for example take a logistic
regression and an SVM right so of course
you can say margin Maximizer all of that
stuff but if you look at it from a pure
optimization standpoint the way I
connect these two concepts is you have
the l2 regularizer in both places here
you have logistic loss here you have
hinge loss and I know the diagrams for
hinge loss and logistic loss that's all
is the difference that's all is the do
that that's all I connect different
concepts even in the course videos if
you look at some of the sample videos we
do connect these concepts like all I
think every major machine learning
technique that we discuss we connected
to all the other techniques because
that's how I learn that if you teach me
a new algorithm I ask what is the
similar to the type that I already know
off and how can I derive this new
algorithm from an old algorithm by
changing a few things here and there
okay so interconnections because we
humans are story I mean we are we are
storytelling creatures right
imagine Ramayana Mahabharata without
without without the story element
without the interlinks without the
connections
right similarly when you learn
mathematics or vanilla any scientific
area right the very important thing is
to interconnect these concepts with one
another we try to do that as part of the
course a lot again this did not be left
evil trigonometry right when you learn
trigonometry or calculus try and
interconnect these things so that it
feels more like a story for you and less
like a bunch of facts that are thrown at
you okay again I don't remember many
formulae but I can derive them
I mean suppose if you ask me to to work
out the SVM formulation I don't remember
it at the top of my head but give me two
three minutes I can write down the
formulation by using the basic geometry
by knowing what needs to be changed and
what should not be changed right that so
that's all I learn and that's what I try
to also incorporate as part of most of
the videos that I do right okay sounds
good
so somebody's saying here
Roshan does not have strong grasp on
programming so how to overcome this what
do prefer math or code again if you want
to have a career in data signs of
machine learning coding is mandatory
right of course maths is also important
but I would I would rank coding as more
important because of course you have to
know math also without math you're going
to make blunders mistakes but coding is
much more at the lower level it's like
should you know alphabets or should you
know grammar first you should know
alphabets right so that's very very
important so coding is very important
and the way I learned coding or the way
I teach coding to people or the way I've
seen youngsters learn coding is take up
a problem start solving it start filling
in those gaps right it's about it's
about taking a big problem breaking it
up into smaller portions and learning
each of these concepts again if you want
to learn some of the basics just go to
interview prep not applied course comm
that's one of the courses we have we
have lot of basic videos and examples so
just go through those videos you'll get
a sense of how we given a problem how we
break it down and start writing code in
a very simple methodology right so that
that comes with practice there is no
shortcut there
most people who learn programming are
are they become good at programming by
solving lots and lots of problems and by
writing code not by solving it in their
heads by actually writing code that's
how I learned coding myself so this very
good when you learn a concept you forget
it okay the simplest way see I told you
right I I have one of the worst memories
that I know of my wife keeps complaining
that I don't even remember the names of
people that we meet I'm terrible at it
but the way I remember things especially
in machine learning or science or
mathematics I still remember calculus
from adult class right because I was I
was teaching something recently for
engineering students and I said okay I
can always I mean I still remember
calculus integration integration by
parts all of those things the reason I
remember is I try to visualize them as I
told you earlier a very good visual
memory I have very bad audio memory
so I don't remember names but I can
remember if you try to draw it in
diagrams for me integration is not the
integral symbol for me integration is
area under the curve that's why I
remember integration differentiation
differentiation for me is the angle of
the tangent to a given curve so I learn
I it is this my strategy I'm not saying
this is the only strategy this is the
strategy that I employ whenever I learn
a concept I try to learn it from a
geometric viewpoint and I also try to
write diagrams and of course you have to
revise if this is the first time you are
learning this concept for example if
there is a research paper that I run ten
years back I've forgotten it because I
have not revised it in my head so
constant revisions maybe once every
three days initially then once every
week once every 14 days and that's one
strategy that can help you not forget
these concepts okay yeah we are already
at 10:05 so let me change the screen
let's go into the discussion itself okay
so just give me a second off I'm super
excited I'll also give you a motivation
on why this whole thing started just
give me a second so let's get into the
discussion itself I hope everybody can
see this okay let me just see I hope
everyone can see this just give me a
second okay okay I'm just making sure
that everyone can see the slides or the
diagrams that I've drawn is that what
exactly slides these are simply
handwritten notes I hope everybody can
see them that's important okay can
everybody just confirm if you can see
the slides that I've put up here or or
the or the hundred or the handwritten
notes that I have here can everybody
confirm that okay so yeah so I've just
written some handwritten notes can
people come from that
okay yeah you all can see right so just
wanted to cross-check that
okay so again again how is this
motivated from okay so let me give you
the reason why I wanted to do this for a
long time so I was invited to a school
recently to give a talk on AI this is a
very popular school in Hyderabad called
the Oakridge International School and
asked me I mean they they keep having
these guest lectures from industry
experts they asked me to give a small
lecture on any topic of my interest to
ninth class students okay that was a big
challenge because what what do I know
that the ninth class student knows then
ask them okay is the CBSE I said yes
they said yes I said can I have the
syllabus for CBSE mathematics okay I
said then I took up a challenge I asked
myself can I teach a ninth class student
how YouTube recommendation engine works
that was my challenge I said all that
they know is basic mathematics this was
I've never taught a school going kid in
my life till date okay except probably
when I was a school going kid myself so
this was a nice challenge I have taught
people who are engineers were working
professionals who are engineering
students etc but I've never taught
somebody who is below tenth class right
or tenth grade so I said okay how do I
now explain them everybody a most most
most of the people who are in the eighth
ninth grades today have used YouTube at
some point or other so I have asked
myself this very simple question they
have used YouTube they have seen YouTube
recommendations I asked them do you know
YouTube recommendations everybody says
yes I then I told them shall we build a
YouTube recommendation system in the
next one or they said are you joking I
said no I'm not joking I'm very serious
ok so again this is an experience that I
learned and I thought I'd do this for
everyone's benefit because I want to
show you that you can build a simple
system I am NOT saying we are going to
build a state-of-the-art system the
state-of-the-art systems for
recommendation systems is fairly
advanced that they mostly use deep
learning today and some amounts of
reinforcement
is also has been experimented upon
etcetera I'm not even going to go to
that depth my objective here is can I
build a simple first cutter YouTube
recommendation using basic mathematics
at high school level the goal here is
with high school level mathematics high
school is your high school is from your
7th 8th grade onwards right if I'm not
wrong so that's that's a goal here can
we do that and I finished we can do it
so let's get going ok of course most of
the viewers here are not like the great
students your your working professional
so I will not teach it at the level of
teaching a high school student I will go
slightly above I'll also discuss about
some real-world challenges on how to
deploy these recommendation systems I'm
assuming some of you have some
background in software engineering or
some background record and stuff like
that some of you have done engineering
or studied sciences or statistics or
mathematics etc right so this is the
motivation so let's get into the agenda
itself so ok so the agent of today's
discussion is as follows it's fairly
simple
so first let's understand the problem
very very important in any data science
task is to understand the problem that
we're trying to solve then we'll simply
use 9th and 10th class mathematics I
will tell you this topic also will you
simply sex we all know about set Union
set intersection these concepts right
this something that you may have learned
in today in CBS's syllabus it's a 9th
grade right I think in some state
syllabus boards it's also they donate
the grade in 10th grade also so using
simple concept I mean you don't even
have to know concept of sex using common
sense and basic mathematics will build a
first cut solution this is by no means a
state-of-the-art solution first we will
learn this okay then we'll use again
once we learn the first cut solution
we'll also learn how to productionize
this model or if you if you if you are a
data scientist how do you deploy this
model how do you now put it into
production how do you now make it
available so that you can run in
production we will also briefly discuss
about it then all of you may have
studied mathematics in your eleventh and
twelfth class and you've learned about
values and eigenvectors I wonder I will
recently learned that some students in
some state boats also learn I can values
and eigenvectors in 10th grade itself so
we use again not set theory slightly
advanced mathematics like eigenvalues
and eigenvectors and I'll connect this
concept to something called as matrix
factorization again we will not be able
to go too deep into it
because we wanted to do a one-hour
session here giving you a high-level
overview
please understand that this is not a
cutting-edge solution I to learn the
cutting-edge solution of building
state-of-the-art recommender systems
will take us like 20 to 30 hours to
learn the basics right again in our
course we cover this from the very
basics like from basic set theory we
cover recovered basics of what is an
eigenvalue because many people I see
forgotten what is an eigenvalue what is
an eigenvector right
what is matrix factorization what is
deep learning will cover see that week
that requires me at least 20 to 30 hours
to cover right so in a one-hour session
I thought I will give you a glimpse of
how simple again many people have this
fear that this is super complex topic
this is this is impossible to build
again this is something that I learned
from ninth grade students all that they
said are you joking literally that's
what they told me I said no I'm very
serious let's build it right and so
let's get to do it let's do it okay so
let's go let's go off okay
so let's understand the problem first
okay I'll keep pausing so the model that
I'll employ here is I'll pause at a few
places and I'll ask your suggestions and
your thoughts on a problem I would love
to hear it in the chat session okay I
change this from this screen to the
YouTube chat window
right so I change from this screen to
sorry I'll change from this screen to
this screen right to see to hear your
thoughts okay so somebody is asking
about the slides I will share a link of
all these I'll send you this PDF and put
it in the video section here itself
after a while after this session is over
I share this light not worry about that
okay
so let's understand the problem
definition first okay so this is a video
of applied a course a video that we did
have a few months back and this is the
current video so if you go to youtube
right so this is called the current
video that I am watching this is called
the current video that I'm watching
so given that I am watching this video
right now given that I am watching this
video I get a bunch of recommendations
here these are all called as recommended
videos this is what is called as video
recommendations problem while watching
this video YouTube while right why does
YouTube does why does YouTube do this do
club does not want users to spend too
much time discovering content that they
may like so YouTube does this
recommendation for you YouTube says ok
these are all the videos that you may be
interested in and I can even set it an
autoplay which means as soon as this
video is over this video will start
playing as soon as that is over this
will start playing as soon as that is
over this will start playing as so so on
so forth
so this is like this is helping users
who is a customer of YouTube who is
watching this video find a new video
content that he or she may be interested
in so it is it is improving the user
engagement user engagement is one of the
most important metrics at YouTube right
they want users to spend more time ok
because then users are more then users
will upload more content users will
spend more time on YouTube and again
that also generates more revenue say at
the end of the day YouTube is also a
business owned by Google right so if
people spend more time on YouTube
YouTube can show more ads and thereby
generate more revenue they have to
generate revenue to survive right so the
whole objective here is can you
recommend videos the whole if you think
about it from a pure problem you are
watching this video you are watching
this video
given this video can you recommend a
videos which are likely to be watched by
this customer who is watching this video
ok that's it that's it these are like
highly likely these are videos which are
highly likely which are highly likely to
be watched to be watched after this
that's it and today I get I do this a
lot of times again you see video
recommendations like this you also see
recommendations like this on Netflix
those of you who have used Netflix are
hot star right very popular services in
it not
Netflix but hot star is very popular in
India like Netflix is just getting
started
so if you see any of these services they
also recommend other videos that you may
like similarly if you have ever heard
songs whether it's whether it's iTunes
right whether it's iTunes or whether it
is sovereign or Ghana any of these any
of these services any of these online
streaming or Spotify right any of these
streaming services based on the song
that you are listening and based on the
songs that you listen to in the past
they will recommend new songs similarly
a commission does a terrific job here
Amazon recommends you Amazon Flipkart
Myntra all of these companies recommend
new products because this this improves
the user engagement by helping users
discover good content that's that's
that's what users want you literally
right and that's what company is also
one because that helps them generate
more revenue this is a business problem
we have to always study the business
problem and the real world problem that
we are solving Before we jump into
mathematics very often people just
directly jump into mathematics without
understanding what is it that we're
something we want to find videos which
are highly likely to be watched by a
user who is watching this video given
that I have other videos also he has
watched in the past I have the data very
simple question right very simple
concept okay so now given this context
okay what data does YouTube have okay I
left this slide blank intentionally okay
what data does YouTube have what data do
you think YouTube collects okay I want
to hear from you guys what data do you
think YouTube collects which we can use
to build this recommendation system okay
so I would love to hear your thoughts on
this okay so let me change to the chat
window here so if you guys can explain
what you think again please pilot what
do you think is the type of data that
YouTube let YouTube collect when you're
watching videos what type of data does
the data scientists at YouTube have tags
okay very good user views so I'm
assuming when you say tags okay so
you're saying every video you can tag it
with some
keywords okay that's what I'm assuming
cool okay this this is moving user views
which means which video has been watched
by which user okay
playlists very good our history I think
by user history all of you mean all the
videos that I watched a search history
very good again many people don't know
but YouTube is the second largest search
engine in the world after Google itself
so user history user text cool cool cool
cool subscriber information very good
very interesting previous history of
users watch tags user like or likes yes
likes and dislikes this is also very
interesting personal preference again
see look at look at all the data that
YouTube collects YouTube knows which
video you are watching whether you liked
it or you disliked it it has that
information also it has information on
whether you're subscribed to a channel
or not at all these all this again
people demographic data very interesting
what is the rough age group of the user
right somebody who is in their thirties
may be interested in baby videos because
they are most likely going to have a
baby or they have a baby right so things
like that right or somebody who is in
the 20s who want to travel you might
want to show them travel videos very
good Search Search is a brilliant idea
so all of this data very good on
terrific great participation lies loving
it okay this always is motivating when
you see people participating so there is
lots of data very very good points that
you guys brought up what we can do is
again all this data the actual YouTube
the two data scientists at YouTube uses
all of this data the two data scientists
at YouTube uses all of this data that
all of this data that you will all have
mentioned in addition to it they could
use data from Android because Google
owns both YouTube and Android they can
use data from your Chrome browser right
they can use data from your Google
search right so because Google owns all
these all these entities right if you
have a Chromebook what you are doing on
Chromebook right so Google in addition
to using data from YouTube also uses
data from others
he says that they provide and that's why
there I mean there there is a lot of
legal have the like up like can't make
up entities like European Union are not
placing more restrictions and fines on
Google because they just use this data
left and right for our discussion what
we'll do is this for our discussion
we'll use some simple data what is the
most useful data here the user viewing
history the user viewing history they
just use one piece of data of course if
you were to actually work at YouTube and
solve this problem you're going to use
all the data that you get document guys
invention and other data from non
YouTube services which are owned by
Google but let's because there's a
simple fiscal solution right they just
use user viewing history which means
given a user you I right what are all
the videos that he or she has watched
let see you so I'll use you for users V
for videos let's assume I have user I
who has watch the video one who is
watched video three who has watched
video six where's watched video 18 who
is watched video 126 these are the IDS
of the videos every video on YouTube has
a unique ID right so let's say you this
is these are all the videos again in
watching videos there is a temporal
element also temporal basically means
time based probably I want to be one
first then I want to be three then I
want to be six then I want to be a tv18
then probably I went and watched v3
again but we'll just ignore it for
simplicity because building a temporal
model or time series model is far more
complex right so we will not go into the
temporal models they just simply say I
take the data from the last seven days
I take the last seven days data for this
user let's just simply last seven days
data not very simple or last 30 days
data whatever let's fix the number of
days because a users today probably I am
watching videos on let's say problem
watching videos on let's say a computer
organization or how to how to how to how
to do how operating systems works right
that's that's what I was actually doing
a few days back maybe one month back I
was looking
to teach calculus better okay two months
back I was learning how to teach
probability better okay so if within
every few days the types of videos that
we watch also change and we want to
recommend more relevant again YouTube
what it does is it shows videos it shows
new recommendations based on there are
more recent ones more often okay but it
might show one odd recommendation based
in your subscription based on whether
you're subscribed to a channel or not
even though you watch the channel long
ago it mostly looks at your recent
history that's called a recency based
model that's what is called a recency
based model or recency based
recommendations recommendation system
very simple the word recency means what
you have done recently right so in the
last seven to thirty days let's assume
these are all the videos that I've
watched so let's just use the data from
the last seven days just for simplicity
again whether it should be 7 days 30
days 60 days 45 days depends on the how
do you decide that you decide that by
doing doc data analysis on YouTube data
itself so for our for our case let's
just simply assume that last seven days
data is good enough see we're making
some simplifying assumptions here okay
so okay so we'll just have this data no
now comes the most interesting part all
of you have heard of this term called
matrix right probably in your tenth
class or 11th class or felt class 10th
or 11th or 12th grade right we all have
learned about matrices we learned about
diagonal matrix will not go to eight
different types of matrices we learned
about determinant of a matrix adjoint of
a matrix inverse of a matrix all of that
stuff how often have you used matrices
that's the problem I - the biggest
problem in most education is we teach
them beautiful concepts in mathematics
but we don't connect them to real world
that's unfortunate part of most of again
there are some brilliant teachers out
there I've seen who do that but the
moment you connect any mathematical
concept to real world people will not
forget it okay so look at this so
imagine what what are the matrix do
matrix has rows and columns so this
whole data that we were talking about
with this whole data of users watching
videos can I store it in a mate
it's a simple matrix see what is a metal
forget about all the complex operations
that we have on a matrix can I store it
in a table like form what is the matrix
matrix is nothing but it's simply a
table if you want to think about it in
layman's term in a non mathematical
viewpoint is just a simple table here it
is called as a data matrix because we
are storing all the data that we want to
use in this matrix that's the goal here
let's see I'll tell you how this is fit
imagine user2
in the last seven days has watched video
three then we'll place one here okay
let's assume user two has watched video
for also will place one here let's say
you user two has not watched video zero
it will be by default is zero simply be
fault by default value is zero now in my
system in my system I could have any
users look at this I could have any
users u1 u2 u3 up to u n so each user
corresponds to a row like this and I
could have M movies
look at this VM M is the number of
movies I write number with a hash it's a
short form notation n is the number of
users so if you think of this if I think
of this whole matrix this is what is
called as a binary matrix this is what
is called as a binary matrix again don't
worry if you don't know what is an
inverse of a matrix identify matrix I
promise you I will not use that trust me
I'll make it extremely simple okay so it
is called a binary matrix because you
only have one thing zeros has this
person watched it or not
of course this person may have watched
user to may have watched video three
multiple times but we are just ignoring
that for now because we want to build a
simple solution so what is this matrix
now if you think about it what is this
matrix let's call this matrix as a how
many rows does it have it has n rows how
many columns does it have it has m
columns so this is what is called a
matrix of n rows and M columns if you
recall you might have written this in
your tenth class or level class a 12th
class right so I have n users and M
videos remember typically how it does
anybody know how many users are there on
YouTube YouTube as of the most recent
statistics has one
three billion billion is 10 power 9 this
is roughly the population of India
roughly roughly the population of India
okay those are the number of users who
are on YouTube the number of movies or
the number of videos is in few hundreds
of millions of videos okay again this
number I could not find the exact number
but I'm sure it's a few hundreds of
millions of movies so this matrix is
massive sized matrix it's a math cell
matrix okay it's a massive matrix very
often when you are a school going
student or even in your undergraduate
days you might have encountered matrices
that are 2 by 3 or 4 by 5 the moment you
see anything more than 4 by 4 matrix you
would say wow this is too big but in the
real world you encounter matrices that
are billion rows few hundred million
columns okay and this is a real data
let's assume all of the data that I have
that I want to use is represented like
this very simple representation right
one basically means this user has
watched this video in the last seven
days at least once
what is zero means he or she hasn't
watched this video simple this is my
data right again I'm building a very
simple solution I am not building
anything that is close to
state-of-the-art okay now now comes the
most interesting thing now given this
data okay so let me go take a step back
here okay let me take a step back here
okay so given this data now how do we
solve the problem okay how do we solve
the problem a very simple question so
what is the problem that we're solving
let's understand it mathematically first
let's understand the problem that we are
solving mathematically first the problem
we are solving here is you have a user
UI who has watched videos v 1 v 6 v 8
whatever from B 15 and probably he is
watching v 18 right now he is watching
this video now you want to recommend a
set of videos you want to recommend a
bunch of videos some ordered set this is
or you want to rank videos and say this
user may like video 69 69 this user may
like video 76 this user may like video
t9 etcetera etcetera and you also want
to rank them you want to say he has a
higher likelihood of liking video 69
more than video 76 you also want to rank
these videos that's very important okay
the user is has watched all these videos
is probably currently what you da teen
or probably these are all the videos
that has watched in the last seven days
now if you want a ranked list you want
to provide a ranked list or you want to
provide a ranked list of move or videos
that he or she may like that's the
challenge here okay now how do we solve
that problem let me give you one simple
idea here one simple idea here is okay
it's called the idea of similarity very
simple concept yet almost common
sensical the idea of similarity is as
follows so we know all these videos that
he or she has watched the user UI has
watched can I find videos can I say
video 18 is very similar to video 69
it's very similar can I say video 15 is
also very similar to video 69 can I say
video video 8 is similar to video 76 and
so on so forth so for each of these
videos for each of these videos can I
get a set of similar videos for this
video can I get a set of similar videos
imagine for each of these videos if I
can get a set of similar videos right so
V 1 let's say you might have set one of
similar videos for v6 I have let say s 2
so on so forth using these sets but I
can just combine all these sets and I
can generate a new set like this imagine
imagine look at look at this simple
thing right because V 18 and V 15 both
of them are similar to V 69 v-69 has is
similar to more number of movies here or
more number of videos here right hence
it's better to list to rank it above V
76 which is your V 76 is only similar to
v 8
let's assume let's assume let's assume V
76 is similar only to V 8 V 69 is
similar to V 8 V 15 and let's say V 1
also let's say you have 69
similar to this so in favor of 69 you
get three votes one vote from v18 one
vote from v15 one vote from v1 in favor
of V 76 you get only v8 as the word
right so since there are more votes
since this video is similar to more
videos that I've watched in the past
make sense to ranked this above v76 very
simple concepted now the problem has
changed the problem has gone from the
problem has gone from recommending
videos to finding similar videos so the
objective here is that given any video
VI and VJ given two videos like this can
I find the similarity between these
videos can you somehow mathematically
compute the similarity between these two
videos if you can mathematically compute
the similarity between these two videos
imagine I have a function like this a
mathematical function which given any
two videos tells me what is the
similarity between them I am done then I
can take video v1 I will simply take
video b1 and ice and I just compute this
similarity for all the other videos
whichever videos have the highest
similarity to b1 I just say these are
the most similar videos very simple
concept here so the challenge the
mathematical challenge here the
challenge the mathematical challenge
here is how do you define similarity
between two videos of course here your
very interesting problem right again
remember I want you to come up with
ideas using the data matrix that we have
what are using the data matrix because
we are limiting ourselves to just using
the data matrix right what is the data
matrix okay so let me go a step back
sorry so let me go as this is my data
matrix right so using my data matrix a
just using my data matrix a how can you
compute how can you simply compute the
similarity very simple concept here okay
so let's go to this let's go to this
problem okay so just a second okay so
the question here is this how do you
compute similarity between two videos
using the data matrix okay now I would
love to
your thoughts on the chat window okay
let me just jump to the chat window
itself okay yeah so any ideas folks
using matrix product okay using matrix
video matrix product okay frequency of
v1 and we do for users okay how often
okay by frequency you mean how often
have others have have you have frequency
which means frequency just measures
popularity right you just don't want to
show popular videos you want to show
very personalized recommended videos
right so people are saying dot product
cosine similarity all of that okay some
of you know some of you know this okay
cool
I can values eigen vectors how tell me
basic stuff correlation between the
videos how do you measure intersection
let's use simple mathematics guys I'll
go into cosine similarity eigen values
eigen vectors let's let's assume you're
a software engineer solving this problem
the question somebody somebody wants me
to repeat the question this question
here is how do you compute the
similarity between two videos using the
data matrix in that's the question okay
channel and genre of the videos but
that's not the data that we have right
we have limited ourselves I agree with
you if you are actually a data scientist
at YouTube you would probably use the
genre of the video the characters in the
video the language of the video and all
of that stuff but here we want to
compute the similarity by just using
very simply by just using the data
matrix how do we do it simply okay how
often have often people CV I also see
region very good very good
okay so very good how many people who
watch VA let me just cut through all the
mathematics again mathematics is just a
tool folks or the mathematics is just a
tool to serve our needs okay so to
compute the similarity just give me a
second okay okay so how do we compute
the similarity okay so remember
mathematics is just a two
it is the intuition which is often very
important I would say intuition is more
important because you can learn
mathematics and you might forget
mathematics but intuition is more
important okay so look at this so this
is my data matrix a this is my data
matrix there as somebody where rightly
pointed out it is intuition that is
important cosines tomorrow there might
be a new metric to make today you may
have sets tomorrow you may have cosine
similarity matrix might change but
intuition is important
okay intuition stays with you for a
lifetime and intuition is how you
remember things and further long term
okay look at this imagine I have this
video and this video to wit imagine I
have three videos VI VJ VK let's assume
I have these three videos VI and VJ are
watched look look look at all the users
who have watched VI u 1 u 2 u 3 u n rest
everybody let's say is 0 that's all the
other users which says 0 all these are 0
then just say for simplicity all these
are 0 so they just say all these are 0
they just say all these are 0 just for
simplicity let's say all these are 0 not
enough so you how many users have
watched both video 1 and video 2 1 2 3
so there are 3 users who have watched
both VI and VJ how many users have
watched VI and VK let's look at the VI
and BK imagine I want to find all the
all the videos that are similar to VI
so 1 and 0 which means you I watch this
but did not watch this so watch this did
not watch this watch this did not watch
this watch this did not watch this only
1 there is only 1 you there is only one
user who has watched video I envy D okay
well there are three users who have
watched both video I and video J the two
users there are three users were watched
it which means four VI VJ seems to be
more similar logically speaking because
look at this users who have watched VI
more number of them have watched VJ and
fewer of them have watched VK common
sense okay
so VI is similar to VJ then we can
you have to sort them if I have to order
them I will always order VJ above we
came in terms of similarity because
there are more of these right so if you
think of this as a set all the ones
which are one so if you think of this as
a set if you think of VI as a set
consisting of u 1 u 2 u 3 and you m so v
VI consists of user 1 because user 1 has
watched them user to user 3 em user M
similarly VJ if you think of it as a set
right consisting of u 1 u 3 right u 4
and u n similarly you can think of VK as
set consisting of u4 and u n then I can
simply take the intersection of these
two sets look at this what is this this
is the notation for intersection of two
sets intersection of two sets followed
by cardinality of the set
what is cardinality of this this is how
we write the cardinality of the set
cardinality of the set means the number
of elements in the set right so VI
intersection bj v AI intersection VJ is
the set u1 u3 u4 right sorry
u1 u u1 u3 um sorry not you foot that's
the intersection now what is the size of
this this size equals to three right the
size of this set
this means cardinality of the set or the
size of the same cardinality is a fancy
mathematical word what it means is the
number of elements in the set that's all
okay so can I use simply similarity
between these two sets I can use simply
similarity bit similarity between two
videos as the intersection of these sets
that I've computed this is one way of
doing it there is one more simple mean
there is one more simple way of doing it
let me also show you an another way so
that is the set theoretic view of doing
it so this is the set theoretic view
this is the set theory view there is
also an another view which programmers
and software engineers love okay take
this as a vector so if you're a software
engineer right you know arrays and
vectors right and array
forget about vectors you know arrays
right so think of this as our AVI
think of this as array VI think of this
as a array region so this is your array
V I this is your array V J what is the
size of this array n elements what is
the size of this array also n elements
so now if you multiply the first element
with the first element look at this
first element with the first element you
get one right then multiply second
element with the second element you get
zero so wherever this user is watched
one but not the other or if both the
users have not watched it you get 0 only
when if both the users watch you get 1
alright so again you get 1 here you get
1 here you get 0 here right you get 1
here so what is this this is this whole
sum so if you think of this as array if
you think of this array and if you do
component wise multiplication this is
what is called as component wise
multiplication right or you multiply the
first element with the first element
second element the second element third
element with third element and sum them
up this will simply give you this set
intersection so if you were to actually
implement this in code you can just
think of this again if you if you if you
know C programming language how do you
represent a matrix you represent you to
using a two dimensional array right even
even in Java or other programming
languages Python you can represent it as
a two dimensional array right very
simple so if you're a software engineer
it's easy to understand it from the
perspective of arrays if you're if
you're more interested in the
mathematical view of it you can think of
it as set intersection okay cool now let
me ask you the tricky question okay so
let me ask you the tricky question here
so let me go into this let me see what
is the next slide I don't remember what
the next line is just give me a second
okay so okay so before we go into the
issue okay let now given this simple
understanding let's see how we can build
a simple solution let's understand this
then I'll ask you a very interesting
question okay suppose I am user I at
time t1
I have watched video v1 at time t2 I
have watched video 26 I am at current
time P now I want to recommend movies
right so or I want to recommend videos
how do I do it look at this for every
the similarity between
VI and VJ if I place this in a matrix in
cell SI je imagine imagine if I have VI
and VJ right this is a similarity
between VI VJ right if I place this in a
matrix I get a matrix S this matrix s
has m rows and M columns where m is the
number of movies this is an M cross M
matrix and what am i storing here in the
8th row jth column here in the eighth
row jet come for example look at this
what do I store here I store in this
cell I store the similarity of video 26
look at this video 26 and video 3 that's
what I am storing here because I can
compute this side given my data matrix
look it is given my data matrix given my
data matrix I can compute this for all
pairs of videos of course that will take
a lot of time because you have hundreds
of millions of videos and billions of
users it will take a lot of time but
once you if of course there are lot of
optimizations and algorithms on how to
do it faster and all of that there are
tons of optimizations in algorithms
right let's assume we do that okay so
now not what you have here so now what
you have here is a system like this so I
have this matrix s okay we call this s
because it's a similarity matrix this
matrix stores the similarity between
every pair of nervous right now if you
look at this this is actually a
symmetric matrix okay because look at
this the similarity between video 2 and
video 3 is same as the similarity
between video 3 and video 2 in a because
the sent intersection here the center
intersection here is the same so so s of
V IJ so s IJ is equal to SJ I we all may
have learnt about this right these these
types of matrices when we were in school
this is where they are actually used ok
now let's go back to the original
problem that we were solving connecting
the dots again connecting the dots to
what you learned in school is very very
important so again for most of machine
learning if you just know up to your
calculus not even if integration if you
know up to differentiation you can solve
most you can learn most of me
most of machine learning very easily
okay so let's assume I met currently
time T now I want to recommend movies so
what do I do I find all the videos that
are similar to 26 which means I pick I
go to this row enough I literally go to
this row and I say which of these videos
are most similar to 26 right I get let's
say you might pick five videos later you
might pick five top top five videos
which are similar to video 26 just a
while ago I also watched video 1 so I go
to row 1 here and I pick 5 videos I also
pick 5 videos here which are very
similar to s1 the most similar videos
now I have this I have 10 videos here
some videos may repeat there might be
some video which is similar to both s 1
and s 26 or which is similar to video 1
and video 26 so it will be there in both
these sets so now I have I have a set of
five videos here I have a set of five
videos now given this set of ten videos
if a video repeats in both of them just
rank it higher just simply rank it
higher that's it so for every remember
you are getting a mathematical score you
are getting literally a number so in the
previous thing very importantly what you
have to recognize here is you are
getting a number to represent it okay
because you have numbers you can compare
them because you have numbers that's
very very important because we are
numbers here the similarity scores are
numbers which means I can compare right
suppose let's say your V 26 is similar
to V 3 and the similarity score is let's
say 126 V 1 is also similar to V 3 V 1
is similar to V 3 but the similarity
score is 162 I can just sum up all of
this so for every for every me do I get
a score like this a similarity score so
I can just sum up all the similarity
scores and ranked them so very simple
imagine instead of two videos I watched
ten videos in the last one day on last 7
days right I just use all those 10
videos pick up the videos which are very
similar to this sum up there some some
of their similarity scores and pick the
ones that have the highest similarity in
this case maybe v3 has higher similarity
may
v6 has slightly lower similarity so on
so forth this is how you can actually
solve the whole problem of course there
are there are there are actual
challenges in this I'll also explain
about how to productionize this model in
a small step not at YouTube scale at
YouTube scale you would require really
really cutting-edge distributed systems
I'll also talk briefly about it right so
I hope you understood the whole flow of
things now that's very very important to
get ok so now now the next very
important thing here is ok so we have
learned some basics right now let me go
to this screen here ok so there is one
problem here ok there is one problem
here I want you to guys tell me what is
a problem with the similarity measure
that we have what is a similarity
measure that we just designed similarity
between two videos VI comma VJ is equal
to is equal to set VI intersection set
VJ the cardinality of the same this is
the metric that we are using this is
called a similarity metric or metric
basically it helps us to measure things
what is the problem with this again this
is the most important thing I want you
to realize come till of some of what I
have told you there is a problem with
this this doesn't work in all cases what
is a problem good question so this type
of metric has flaws so let me call it
that thing instead of calling it a
problem it has a few flaws can some can
anybody find out what is a flaw in this
measure this is a simple measure right
what is a fluke there is a problem there
is a flaw in this measure in using this
measure we could make mistakes can
anybody figure out what that mistake is
that's the question again this is the
very very interesting this is the
ingenious part till now whatever learnt
is very simple this is the slight leap
small innovation not not rocket science
ok I'm not going to cold start all of
that let's assume there is no cold start
what is a cold start cold start is
imagine if I get a new video cold start
problem is basically when I have a new
video for which I don't have any data of
course that's a problem
ok so I'll also take that find new
videos ok fine I'll take that ok so if
there is a new video we have a problem
but if you have a new video with no data
whatever similarity measure we come up
with
have a problem because you don't have
any data imagine Vijay here is a new
video if it's a new video there is no
data to start with so whatever you
define this as you will have a problem
because you don't have data right so
flow means mistake yeah so that's what I
mean okay so let's say okay people are
talking about some upload mistakes etc
let's ignore that for now of course in a
real if you are actually if you have
data scientists anywhere there will be
hundreds of real-world problems but
let's simplify it now okay after finding
similarity may find similarity of more
videos so what when intersection is null
okay when intersection is null what does
inter say imagine imagine if the
intersection is null what does that mean
it could mean two things Vijay is a new
video which is which is just been
uploaded that's where the intersection
is not that's one possibility
okay in such a such a possibility is
called as a cold start problem because
we don't have any data for region that's
why it's called the cold start problem
the other problem is VI VJ have enough
data but they are not intersecting that
means we envision dissimilar right VJ v
VI VJ are dissimilar
so what's the problem there so because
they are dissimilar their intersection
is 0 if their intersection is 0 that
means they're highly dissimilar no
problem with it so cold start so just
because the intersection is 0 does not
mean everything is a problem there may
be lots of intersection the other way of
thinking goodgoodgood this a good point
what happens if there is a lot of
intersection when does lot of
intersection happen when does rule so VI
and VJ there is a lot of intersection
what does that mean what does that mean
good point somebody said memory issue I
understand there are there are problems
with deploying this in production but of
course to deploy it we use really high
end distributed systems don't worry
about that biased by user pattern we
wanted to be biased by user pattern
right we want the system to learn from
user patterns right so keyword is not
very similar
we are not using keywords anywhere in
the data right okay so let me show you
an example okay probably you'll be able
to appreciate it better than not a cell
so let me show you a simple example it's
always good to understand with examples
let's take this right okay so the
problem is actually with something
called as popular videos imagine you
have some viral video some music video
or some movie launch video they are
extremely popular so imagine I have
video VI VJ VK VK let's assume is a
popular video which means lot of people
have watched it let's say you just this
is my data matrix just for simplicity I
just wanted to show you this problem
okay look at this VK is watched by
everybody
every Tom Dick and Harry watch this
video K because this is probably a
popular music video let's say or a viral
video of some sort like the cat videos
the baby videos etc now what happens in
this case is now let's compute the
similarity between VI and VJ look at
this one user if you look at this VI VJ
are very similar because they're exactly
watch the same videos look at this VI so
they're exactly wants to be the same
users I'm sorry user 1 user 2 let's say
user 10 user 11 they just say so use VI
and VJ are very similar because exactly
see this user watch both of them this
user watch both of them
this user watched both of them this user
watched both of them other users did not
watch any of them so if you think about
logically VI VJ similarity should be
significantly higher when I place an
arrow mark here that means it should be
very high as compared to similarity
between VI and VK but if you look at the
similarity between VI VK 1 2 3 4 if I
use the metric if I use this metric of
intersection what is the similarity
between VA VK 4 what is the similarity
between sort of VI VJ 4 VI VK is also 4
look at this what is the metric that we
are using just simple cardinality of
intersection right if I simply use my
metric my metric is similarity between
videos IJ is VI intersection reject the
cardinality of the set if I use this
if I use this what you can let think
about it from a real-world perspective
if this is the case VI VJ this is my
data very small data I'm taking just for
example okay my similarity here is for
my similarity here is for the larger the
number but the more similar they are the
problem here is VI and VJ are very
similar but V and V can need not be very
similar this is just a popular video
that is watched by everyone that's it
it so happens that these users have also
watched it but there are also a lot of
instances where this user has watched it
this user hasn't watched it but this
user the sudden there are lots of
instances where there is a user here who
is not watched this VI but watched we
came this is like Gangnam style video
let's say everybody does billions of
views guys when people who don't even
understand Korean like me have watched
it at least once who don't know what
Gangnam is it's actually and I learned
it later it's actually a location it's
actually a exactly a partial location
and see all it seems okay so the
important thing here is if you have a
popular video this will look simple
this will be similar this will this will
end up being similar if I use this
metric if I use this measure or this
metric it will feel similar to every
other video even though it's not it's
just a popular video so how do we fix it
there is a very nice fix to it called as
Jaccard similarity standing for j s what
this says is very important this says so
this is called as Jaccard similarity
check and similarity okay very very
useful metric or measure in in in
machine learning used extensively in
machine learning
Jake add similarity between two sets is
the size of the intersection by the size
of the union now look at now look at
what happens okay if I use Jaccard
similarity between VI VJ the union is 4
sorry the Union here the union of VI
weekend there are 4 elements here there
are 4 elements here so the union here is
4 cool and the intersection is also 4 so
the jagged similarity is 1 right now the
jacket similarity between VI and weekend
the intersection between VI weekend
there are 4 videos which are in the
intersection there are total of seven
videos between both of them 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 there are 7 not video
users I'm sorry okay so seven users have
watched both VI and V King so the Union
consists this union of VI VK consists of
seven right the intersection consists of
four there are four users where what VI
became but the total of seven users who
have watched either VI or making
actually in the comment section somebody
said can we use or also in addition to
and actually one of the students said
that but he didn't go into the depths of
it this is like saying either VI watched
or VK watched this is like saying the
human this is like saying this is like
saying count the number of users who
have watched both VI and we came this is
like saying count the number of users
who have watched either VI or weekend
that's the logical order right if you
think about from a computer science
perspective or watch it not what happens
if I use Jaccard similarity if I use
Jaccard similarity it is scoring VI VJ
to be more similar than VI weekend and
this is what we wanted to do see we
always invent mathematics we create new
mathematics to solve the real-world
problem everything that we have studied
in your life every mathematical concept
that you've studied has been created to
solve the real-world problem including
complex numbers or imaginary numbers
many people think the imaginary members
are imaginary
you know we have been created for a
specific purpose to solve problems in
physics right so Jaccard similarity is a
concept which is created to solve this
problem wherein VI VJ should be more
similar and Vav cam must be more
dissimilar right they should be more
dissimilar these both must be more
similar to solve that problem
jihad similarity has been created right
so instead of using simple similarity it
is better to use Jaccard similarity to
avoid the problem of popular videos
right so very very very interesting
concept again this is how again whenever
you learn a concept in machine learning
data signs anything learn why we need it
that is SuperDuper important okay if you
don't learn the reasoning behind it you
are just remembering things by heart now
whenever somebody tells me Jaccard
similarity i do not remember the formula
sometimes to be honest with you to be
really honest because sometimes i do not
remember the formula by heart but
remember Jaccard similarity is created i
know that this whole metric is created
to solve this type of
so I can derive it literally or I can
verify the formula on Wikipedia I
understand why it's needed why is very
very important always ask why pooch hawk
you okay my mother tell you
Otakon day in the code okay you have to
ask why the heck has this concept come
into existence
okay pooch you if you're Hindi
speaking person I don't know any other
language sorry I know Telugu so I can
say in the Kannada Gandhi okay super
duper important okay sounds good okay
sounds good okay let's go down now just
like we have computed similarity between
videos I can also compute similarity
between users
same concept if you think of this user
as a set all the videos that the user
has watched as a set I can think of all
the videos that the user J has watched
as a sec now I can compute Jaccard
similarity between user IM user j this
is an other way of thinking about it
just like the way we have computed
similarity between movies i can think of
similarity between users also now how do
I use this if I know that user I and
user J are very similar let's say human
user I has watched these two movies has
also watched this he has watched this
and has watched this let's register now
user J has watched this he has watched
this he has not watched this he has
watched this and his watched this
register then the Jaccard similarity
between user and user J will be very
high let's ignore all the other movies
okay because there is a lot of
intersection in what these people have
watched and the union is also pretty
healthy now because user J and user I
user I and J are very similar is there a
movie that user I watched that user J
did not watch yes there is this movie or
video to which user we know we know that
user I is very similar we know user I is
similar to user J we know that okay
based on a metric like jacket similarity
now I can say okay user I has watched
one but has not watched but user J has
not watched so for user J I can
recommend video to okay because they
both are very similar users for example
imagine this is a tech guy okay who
likes tech reviews
this is also a tech guy okay who is a
gadget guys or can I just call them get
get guys who love cutting-edge gadgets
okay I have one such guy especially with
computational tools etc right so I love
the most advanced laptops I enjoy them
okay I try to get them whenever I can
afford it okay so so let's assume these
two are very similar so if there's a new
review that was launched by a reviewer
and what let's say there is a surface
pro 7 that got launched or surface Pro X
that got launched very recently I think
just three four days back so this user
has watched it and he probably watched
the whole video to the end and this user
hasn't watched it probably he didn't
have time at office or at school or at
college right so it makes sense to
Hodges this video to this person right
so you can also use a similarity between
users as a very nice way to think about
this right so now let's go down okay now
the biggest question is how do you
deploy this again I'm not be able to go
too deep because we are already into the
have already just finished one hour into
the discussion I'll spend 10 15 minutes
just going into this okay again how do
you apply this you might you have
typically like 1 billion plus users
hundreds of millions videos new videos
are watched regularly how do you do it
remember you have this matrix S this
matrix S is maybe 100 million so we
write mmm to represent a million 800
million is 100 into 10 power 6 okay
that's the number of rows that we have
okay this is this is a similarity matrix
right and the s IJ value this whole main
to the similarity matrix similarity
between so this is my similarity matrix
which is M cross M we have talked about
the this is this is basically my this is
called as my video video similarity
let's just call it video video
similarity in Netflix recommendation
it's called movie movie similarity right
so when I have this similarity this
matrix each cell here is a floating
point value if I use Jaccard similarity
this is a floating point value and
floating point values can take like 4
bytes or 8 bytes depending on the
depending on the programming language
you are writing written right and how
many cells do I have I have hundred into
10 power 6 in 200
10 power 6 that is 10 power 8 into 10
power 8 so I have 10 power 16
floating-point numbers that I have to
store Wow
this is like crazy this is literally
like crazy thing right so how do we how
do we how do you not do hacks again
engineering is all about working around
really well constraint like this right
so instead of storing look at the hack
that many people do here is for this for
this movie let's say this is all for
this video I instead of storing
similarity with all other videos I could
just say I don't care about all of them
for every video I just need for every
video I will just store the top 10
videos that are similar to this so this
video is rich is similar to v1 it is it
is similar to v3 it is less similar to
v6 so on so forth v1 96 for each of
these I'll store a number let's say this
number is 2.6 some number some number
here this number measures similarity so
technically we should so let's assume
this number measures if similarity like
let's assume this is 0.8
this is 0.6 this is 0.1 this is point
zero six something like that so instead
of storing this big matrix with 10 power
16 float look at them and that's like
crazy crazy what is 10 per let's let us
understand this right what is this this
is four thousand 4 into 10 power 3 into
10 power 12 10 power 12 bytes is a
terabyte okay you need four thousand
terabytes or four thousand terabytes of
RAM to store this in main memory I don't
know of any system which has 4 thousand
terabytes of main memory or Ram right we
don't have that so instead of that what
engineers do is they simplify the
problem they say instead of storing all
this information all I need here is for
every video I just store information
about the top 10 videos in some data
structure like a hash table or or a
database table whatever it is simple
stuff this will simplify the problem so
once you have this how do you production
is this look at this for production
ization you have to first reduce the
data size I can reduce the data size
here right suppose if I have 100 million
10 power 8 movies okay now I have to
store 10 numbers corresponding to it
okay
so 40 by
right so what is this this is 4 into 10
power 9 bytes what is 10 power and this
is 4 GB RAM this is approximately 4 GB
RAM many of you have 4 GB RAM so instead
of instead of requiring 4 thousand
terabytes of RAM now we are solving the
problem by just using 4 GB of RAM that's
it you can actually you can launch a
system to solve this on your laptop now
ok these are engineering and tax these
are engineering hacks that engineers
build up this is one way again if you
have this data if you have for every
video of the top 10 videos that are
similar to this it's very simple if a
user is watching video VI you can just
go to this go to this big data that you
have stored you can store this in a
database table also if you want what is
this simply database table right each
row will correspond to a video each
column will correspond to the top 10 top
10 videos and their corresponding scores
that's it you can you can put this in a
standard database sorry in a standard
database like like my sequel or Oracle
and solve the problem so these are these
are again when your production izing it
when you are deploying for deploying
there is a concept called api is so we
have done we have done some live
sessions on how to production eyes and
deploy machine learning models that we
have done like to our to our like to we
have done two live sessions two to our
live sessions so those who are
interested can look up those things for
more details but I just wanted to give
you a hack on how actually things like
these are implemented in practice right
now one more concept before we before we
leave is now how does this thing get
connected to your 11th and 12th class
mathematics again since we are short of
time I just give you a very high-level
overview what we have here is a matrix a
look at this this is my this is my data
matrix my a is my data matrix right now
my similarity matrix can also be written
as look at this I can just multiply a
transpose with a we all remember a
transpose right what is a transpose when
you if you remember your 9th class 10th
class 11th class mathematics what is a
transpose change your rows into columns
change your rows into columns make your
columns into rows so a transpose every
row will correspond to a video every
column will correspond to a user so a
transpose a matrix multiplication a
transpose a matrix multiplication from
your high school days probably from a
10th 11th class days we were never
taught why we need to do this Y
transpose is required unfortunately okay
some of us of course there are some good
teachers who might have taught you that
and huge respect for those people
because that's what I would I would want
students to learn right when when
especially when you're younger if you
learn it like that put your cue will hit
your head you'll never forget concepts
okay so now look at this so if when I
multiply both of them what I get is
actually the similarity matrix so your s
that you have the similarity matrix that
we that we'll be talking about till
enough is nothing but a transpose ax if
you think about from matrix algebra if
you think about it from matrix algebra a
transpose a is nothing but your
similarity matrix your similarity matrix
remember you're seeing for your
similarity matrix you can compute
eigenvalues and eigenvectors and again
in the interest of time since again
explaining eigen values eigen again lot
of times we learned eigenvalues and
eigenvectors from a theoretical
viewpoint we learned a we learnt we
learnt lambda v equals to a be right
that's a formulation right a minus
lambda i into v equals to 0 right so a v
equals to lambda B so we know again some
of you may remember this formula but why
do we have this okay why how is this
related how is this whole eigenvalue
eigenvector related to recommending
systems right again so it is related i
will not be able to explain that in like
10 minutes or even wanna it'll take me a
lot of time to explain the intuition
behind why we need eigenvalues why we
need eigenvectors actually we have some
free videos for those of our register
students can access all of this content
on our course videos so please go check
out applied a course just log in with
your google or facebook account there
are a bunch of free videos in the
chapter data visualization there is a
chapter called data visualization in
which we explain why we need eigenvalues
and eigenvectors and what they actually
mean so there is a concept called as
principal component analysis where we
explain this this is freely available
it's also available on our youtube
channel please go check out these
concepts but broadly speaking
based on the concepts of eigenvalues
eigenvectors there is a concept called
singular value decomposition and matrix
factorization this was one of the
state-of-the-art techniques till about
20 2014 till about 2013 2014 singular
value decomposition and especially
matrix factorization based methods which
are based on eigenvalue eigenvector
concepts what the most popular
state-of-the-art methods for recommender
systems today in 2019 it is deep
learning systems plus reinforcement
learning of course there is some matrix
factorization also being used but a
combination of all of them is the
cutting edge today that I know of which
is used extensively in industry right so
with that with that I'll take leave just
a second ok just a second folks hey
thank you all for joining in I'm sorry I
ate eight minutes into your time but I
just wanted to give you a glimpse of the
whole objective here is to give you a
glimpse of how simple mathematics can be
and how applied things can be it's
important to not just learn the formulae
the concepts but it's important to
connect them as somebody rightly pointed
out in the early part of the discussion
it's all to understand why we need a
concept because if you know why a
concept is needed you will not forget it
now if you'll never forget Jaccard
similarity in your life because you know
why Jaccard similarity was invented in
the first place to solve it because
whenever you think of recommender
systems and you think of popular videos
see you have to connect the concepts to
things that we see every day we always
see popular trending videos right so
whenever you think of you see a trending
video on your youtube youtube life and
whenever you think of recommender
systems Jaccard similarity should strike
your mind that's how you'll never forget
a concept that's all I remember to be
honest with you that's how I remember
concepts I don't remember again it took
me it took me a couple of seconds to
write the eigenvalue formula right
because I don't have number formulae I
know how eigenvalues eigenvectors work
in the geometry of things because I told
you I learned from the first principles
from geometry asking why do I need this
concept for those of you who are
learning machine learning we thought
this session will put you on the right
track help you learn
learning from a first principles ass
quite concept mucho cumin oregano indigo
ask why okay
hope you have great learning ahead of
you and all the very best
thank you folks thank you for joining on
a Sunday morning sorry for eating ten
more minutes you do your time bye-bye
see you
